Hitler in 1933
Adolf Hitler (20 April 1889 - 30 April 1945) was the leader of Nazi Germany during World War II. He called himself the Führer (which means leader in German). Hitler caused the death of tens of millions of people because he started World War II. He killed himself in 1945.

Personal life

Childhood
Hitler's young
Hitler was born into a family of six in Austria (not Germany, like some people think). Hitler's father later died in 1903, which caused him to fail his High School Exams. He left school in 1905 with no qualifications. Hitler became interested in Antisemitism. This is the false belief that Jews are either evil or otherwise not as good as other people. This caused him to hate Jews for the rest of his life, which eventually brought about the Holocaust. In 1913, Austria wanted all young Austrian men to join the army. Hitler left for Germany because he did not like the Austrian army.

World War I
Hitler fought at the Battle of Ypres and the Battle of the Somme. He was given the Iron Cross in 1914.

Politics
After World War I, Hitler went back to Munich. He went to the funeral march of Kurt Eisner. In 1919, Hitler joined the German Workers' Party. Two years later, he became the leader of the party which he later renamed the Nazi party.

Mein Kampf
In 1925, Hitler wrote a book called Mein Kampf (or My Struggle in English)

Dictatorship



World War II
Hitler's actions, teachings, and beliefs that Jewish people were less important than others, lead to the deaths of millions of Jewish people in World War II in concentration camps, while others were attacked and murdered. This was called the Holocaust.
After a first victory of the German army (the Wehrmacht), the Allies (United Kingdom, USSR, USA and others) pushed the German forces back from 1943 onwards. Hitler later killed himself before Berlin fell to the Soviet forces in 1945.

Death
He committed suicide in 1945 in a bunker and Joseph Goebbels became the chancellor for less than 24 hours.

Holocaust



References