Allosaurus. Fragilis Mounted at the San Deigo, Natural History Museum
Allosaurus is one of the most famous Carnivorous Dinosaurs from the Jurassic Period Found in the Morrison Formation.

Lifesyle
They used to hunt in the Northern America and potentially in Portugal 155- 144 million years ago. We can assume they would've hunted in packs. As dozens of Allosaurus have been found in the Cleveland-Lloyd Dinosaur Quarry in Utah, This would probably be useful if not necessary to keep the massive Sauropod population that ruled in the Morrison. Of course anything smaller than itself would've probably been on the menu aswell, such as Dryosaurus, Nanosaurus, and Camptosaurus. Predation amongst Stegosaurids have also been observed with an Allosaurus being preserved with a suspiciously Stegosaurus thagomizer shaped hole found in it's pelvis. And a Stegosaurus plate preserved with Allosaurus teeth aswell. That being said it wouldn't be uncouth to say that Allosaurus lived quite the rough life riddled with battle wounds of failed attempts to purge the massive herbivores it had the task of purging. Aswell as diseases and infections on it's feet being commonly found, possibly due to it having no regard towards sanitary feeding regarding it's toes, and just digging it up into any carcass it can get it's feet on. Most of Allosaurus's Life is Preserved From specimens like Big Al and Big Al II.

Anatomy

The Allosaurus was really good at hunting in fact it was so good 75% of Carnivorous Creatures found in the Morrison are Allosaurus. Strong, Equipped with 6-7 Inch long claws it's form is quite typical compared to all theropods slim Body Long tail and Massive Head which was about a 2'9'' in Length, The Jaw of Allosaurus is extraordinary amongst theropods as it can open it's maw to a staggering 79-92 degrees, Almost as if Allosaurus evolved to vacuum as much food into it's gullet by opening it's mouth wider and wider but that's purely Speculation.

Taxonomy
Allosaurus with skin, Credit Frederic Weirum (*)Allosaurus despite being a realtively basic dinosaur has been quite the struggle to identify any actual ancestors or descendants to itself. The Closest it's Related to are the Tetanurans which are one of the most basal Dinosaur Families. till you get to the Archosaurs. That being said Allosaurus is closest linked to the Carcharodontosaurids.



Species
Allosaurus Has Three Valid Species, †Alllosaurus. fragilis Marsh 1877, †Allosaurus. jimmadseni Chure & Loewan 2020, and †Allosaurus, europaeus Mateus et al.2006 Though others have been proposed as recent as 2024, with †Allosaurus. anax Danison et al. 2024 The differences are slight to say the least but The most common Species is Fragilis making up the majority of all Allosaurus Fossils. Allosaurus. anax was once Proposed to be Saurophaganax. m. But recently Saurophaganax has been recently found dubious and instead a chimaera of Allosaurid and Diplodocid Bones. If the Species is Valid then It would be the biggest species of Allosaurus much like Saurophoganax was thought to have been the biggest Predator in the Morrison.

Facts


Meaning : Different lizard
Date : Late Jurassic, Late Kimmeridgian to Tithonian.
Size : 30 feet (9.12 m) long
Fossil Locations: Morrison Formation, Portugal?



simple:Allosaurus
fr:Allosaure
(*) https://www.artstation.com/artwork/allosaurus-wikipedia