Chicago's Soldier Field in 2006
American Football is a popular outdoor game played by two teams. The object is to score points with touchdowns and field goals.

Rules and regulations

Peyton Manning, one of football's greatest quarterbacks
American football is an outdoor game played by two teams of eleven men each. It is played on a field 120 yards long by 53.33 yards wide with end zones and goalposts at each end.
The team in possession of the ball must move it a certain distance down the field or surrender the ball to the opposing team. Points are scored by putting the ball into the opposing team's end zone for a touchdown or kicking the ball through the opponent's goalposts for a field goal. The team with the most points at the end of a game wins.

Super Bowl

Positions on the football field
Professional football and college football are the most popular forms of football in America. High school and youth football are also popular. The annual professional championship Super Bowl is the most popular single-day sporting event in the United States.
The two professional teams with the best seasons and playoff championships battle each other in the biggest football game of the year. It is always played on a Sunday in February in a stadium pre-chosen annually.
The day is a festive one for fans. Families gather at home around the television set to celebrate the day with buffets. Some fans gather in crowded bars and restaurants to watch the game.

History

Football players in training
American football had its origins in rugby football. The first game of American football was played on November 6, 1869, between Rutgers and Princeton universities. Walter Camp, the "Father of American Football", developed the rules of the game beginning in 1880.

Modern times

Pro Football Hall of Fame
Professional and college games are played and televised from August to January. There are various positions on a team with the quarterback being the most important. Other positions include the centers, the wide receivers, the tight ends, the tackles, the linebackers, and others. The Pro Football Hall of Fame is in Canton, Ohio.
As the fall football season approaches in America, many novels are published with football settings for teen boys. These novels focus on the timeless themes of courage and honor as well as contemporary issues such as drug use, cheating, and being gay. Novels for adults are published with themes of drug use in the football world and the personal lives of professional players that touch on sexuality, substance abuse, and moral corruption. Movies with football settings like The Longest Yard, North Dallas Forty, Rudy,  and Invincible take an adult view of football.