<indicator Vikidia:Protection Policy|Protection of the article]]="Vikidia:Protection Policy|Protection of the article]]" protectionicon="protectionicon"/>







50px|alt=Protection|link=





Warning: this page is protected!


Only Autoconfirmed users can edit this page.










Animal Crossing: New Horizons is a video game made by Nintendo and it is for the Nintendo Switch. It is a social game where your human interacts with animal villagers or other people. Animal Crossing: New Horizons is the newest video game in the Animal crossing series.

Gameplay
When it is the first time, you meet 2 raccoons named Timmy and Tommy. They will ask for your real birth date and real name. At the island, you first will see a cutscene. When you first start there, it is empty and rivers are all blocking the way to go explore other areas. Your villagers and your human have to set up their tents and the human set up resident services and the plaza. Your villagers choose a name, but your human is the one that is chosen name. Other buildings will come up later in the game.

NookPhone
A NookPhone is similar to a smartphone in real life. Tom Nook will give the Nookphone to you. At the start you will see apps, Camera, Nook Miles, DIY recipes, Custom designs, Map, Passport, and the Rescue Services. These apps help you on the way wile on the island. If you see a red dot on one of the apps, it means something you may have earned like nook miles.

Unlockable apps

Critterpedia: When you give a bug and a fish to Tom Nook. It is not an encylcopedia, but it tells you when the bugs you collected in which months, times, and shows the images.
Nook Shopping: After you purchased 100 items from nook shopping (Not redeem nook miles). You can shop anywhere not just at the ABD.
Island designer: Unlocked after a 3 star rating and K.K Slider comes to the island.
Chat: The 1st time you played online.
Call resident: 2nd player arrival
Best friends: Go to a friend's island for the 1st time.
Happy Home Network: Unlocked by the Happy Home Paradise DLC (*)



Main characters

Tom Nook: The leader of Nook Inc. and the father of Timmy and Tommy although they have no blood relation.
Timmy: The older brother of Tommy, He sells things for bells. You can choose to sell your things to him (one of the ways to get bells). Later in the game, he is at nook's cranny.
Tommy: Timmy's younger brother, at the start, he is out outside, later he is also in the shop (Nook's cranny), then he switches to another building.  (*)
Human Name (Name of your human). This is your human, you control it. The human is the one who gathers the supplies to make a shop, make all of the donations, and have big loans.
K.K Slider. When human first goes to bed, it sees K.K Slider, a white labrador. He likes to sing and play on his guitar. K.K slider returns later after you get a 3 star rating on the village which requires at least 8 villagers and alot of furniture  (*)



Other characters

Mabel: Mabel sells clothing on a few days and she is found on the plaza.
other villagers. As progressing later, you see more villagers with homes. If you reserve land for the villagers, you earn miles when its built the next day.


Bells (Currency)
The main currency is the bell. Bells are used to buy items, pay for inclines and bridges by donating, and your house loan. Bells can be found by selling items, hitting money rocks (1 rock per day), and money trees. Bells can be desposited at the ABD (Automatic bell despenser). When villagers say your bells are ringing means that you payed them. The symbol for a bell is a coin with a star on it or a bag with a star on it. Glowing spots in the ground will have bells. Dig it up with a flimsy shovel, shovel, or gold shovel. You can put up to 10000 bells in the glowing hole, the more bells you put, the more bells the tree will have, but only up to 10000. If you put more than that, it is no more than 30000 bells.

Loans
Houses like real life, you must take a loan if you want a house, or upgrades to the house. It keeps getting higher and higher the loans. The loans are

5,000 nook miles. To move to a tent. This is the only loan that is payed in miles (otherwise it would be 48,000 bells).
98,000 bells. To get a house with 6 x 6 room. This is the first loan that is payed at the ABD.
198,000 bells. To expand the house to an 8 x 8 room.
348,000 bells. To get a back 6 x 6 room.
548,000 bells. For a left 6 x 6 room.
758,000 bells. For a right 6 x 6 room.
1,248,000 bells. For an upstairs 10 x 6 room.
2,498,000 bells. For a basement 10 x 6 room.  (*)


The total cost of the loan for a full house is 5,746,000 bells and 5,000 nook miles.

Eating
Eating in Animal Crossing: New Horizons gives you the power to do 2 things. The first thing is to dig up trees and the second is to break rocks. This helps by bringing things on a - Mystery tour by bring non native fruit to the island.

Citations





simple:Animal Crossing: New Horizons
wp:Animal Crossing: New Horizons
nl:Animal Crossing: New Horizons
(*) Animal Crossing - New Horizons Wiki (Game8)
(*) - Animal Crossing wiki, Timmy and Tommy
(*) - Animal Crossing wiki - Island evaluation
(*) - Animal Crossing Wiki - Mortgage