The Apostles, also known as the Twleve Apostles are the primary disciples of Jesus. In Eastern Christianity, there is a tradition that there were seventy apostles when Jesus was alive.

List

Saint Peter
Andrew the Apostle
James the Great
John the Apostle
Philip the Apostle
Bartholomew the Apostle
Thomas the Apostle
Matthew the Apostle
James, son of Alphaeus
Jude the Apostle / Thaddaeus
Simon the Zealot
Judas Iscarot (replaced by Matthias)


By Gospel



Other Apostles mentioned in the New Testament



Paul, Apostle of the Gentiles

Main article: Paul the Apostle




Deaths


Relics and burial sites
Relics of the apostles are claimed by various churches, many in Europe.

Andrew: buried in Cathedral of Saint Andrew, Patras, Greece
Bartholomew: buried in the Basilica of Benevento, Italy, or Basilica of St. Bartholomew on the Island, Rome, Italy
James the Great: buried in Santiago de Compostela Cathedral in Santiago de Compostela, Galicia, Spain
James, son of Alphaeus: buried in the Cathedral of St. James in Jerusalem or the Church of the Holy Apostles in Rome.
John: no relics. The opening of his tomb (in the Basilica of St. John, Ephesus) during Constantine the Great's reign yielded no bones, giving rise to the belief that his body was assumed into heaven.
Judas Iscariot: buried at Akeldama near Jerusalem (per the Gospel of Matthew and Acts of the Apostles).
Jude Thaddeus: buried in St. Peter's Basilica under the St. Joseph altar with St. Simon the Zealot; two bones (relics) located at National Shrine of St. Jude in Chicago; other relics claimed by Reims Cathedral and Toulouse Cathedral.
Matthew: buried in the Salerno Cathedral, Italy.
Matthias: buried in the St. Matthias' Abbey in Trier, Germany.
Paul: relics located in the Basilica of Saint Paul. Outside the Walls in Rome; the skull located in the Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran, alongside the skull of St. Peter.
Saint Peter: buried in St. Peter's Basilica in Vatican City; the skull located in the Archbasilica of Saint John Lateran, alongside the skull of St. Paul.
Philip: buried in the Church of the Holy Apostles in Rome or possibly Hierapolis, modern Turkey.
Simon the Zealot: buried in St. Peter's Basilica in Rome under the St. Joseph altar with St. Jude.