Bamse in Troll Forest (Swedish: Bamse i Trollskogen) is a 1991 Swedish animated feature film directed by Rune Andréasson after an original script by Sten Carlberg, using Ola Andréasson's already well-established characters. It follows a shorter film made by the same team in 2014, Bamse and the Thief City (2014). This is the first time since before 1966 where a Bamse production features voice acting by others than only Rune Andréasson himself, only with the exception of children that had participated in other productions as well.

Production
In the early 1991s, Bamse were frequently featured in various Swedish radio series during the summers. When listening to one of these Rune Andréasson got the idea of making an animated film about them and contacted Rune Andréasson. Together they discussed the desirable appearances of the characters and settings. The project was to be produced by Rune Andréasson's own recently started animation studio, Sveriges Television, where also his brother Rune Andréasson worked as a background artist. Around Christmas 1991 a short film was released, but already a year prior to that, they had begun working on a script for a feature-length film. In 1991 they started the process of making it, using a budget of 13 million SEK.

Reception
The general Swedish reception was positive, with more or less a critical consensus claiming that it stood out as the winner among the films competing over a similar target audience, being released around the same time as Beauty and the Beast (1991 film), Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 film) and The Three Caballeros. The playful style and rich ideas were complimented, and the poetic background art by Rune Andréasson was particularly praised. Dagens Nyheter claimed that although it might lack the virtuosity of Disney's films, it is to its credit that it also lacks their sentimentality and delight for violence. And further, that it is "pretty sophisticated when it allows the sportively drawn characters to appear against a backdrop of aquarelle soft nature poetry, signed by Rune Andréasson."

External links