Bobi in 2023
Bobi (11 May 1992 – 21 October 2023) was a male Rafeiro do Alentejo dog lived in Conqueiros, Leiria, Portugal. In February 2023, he was officially recognized as the world's oldest dog to reach the age of 30. (*)  He held the title of the oldest known dog ever to have lived. It was owned by Leonel Costa, in Conqueiros, Leiria, Portugal.

Early life
Bobi was born in a shed where his owner's family kept wood. His brothers, unfortunately, didn't survive as they were buried after birth because his owner's father didn't want more pets. Bobi was lucky to escape this fate because he looked like the shed's wood and wasn't noticed when his siblings were buried. (*)  His age was officially recorded in the Portuguese government's pet database.

Certification
Bobi was officially recognized by Guinness World Records as the world's oldest living dog and the oldest dog ever recorded. On 1 February, 2023, he was 30 years and 266 days old, surpassing the previous record held by Bluey, a female Australian Cattle Dog who lived to be 29 years and 5 months. In December 2022, a 23-year-old chihuahua named Spike briefly held the title of the world's oldest living dog in Ohio, but two weeks later, Bobi's age was confirmed, making him the new record holder. When Bobi passed away, Spike regained the title as the world's oldest living dog.

Last years and death
Bobi's owners noted that, despite his age, he was healthy, although he had issues with walking, eyesight, and breathing. The Costas believed that Bobi's long life was due to a calm and peaceful environment and a diet of fresh food rather than typical dog food. Genetics may have played a role as his mother also lived a long life of 18 years. Notably, Bobi was not neutered.
To celebrate Bobi's 31st birthday, they threw a party with 100 guests enjoying meat, fish, and a performance by dancers. Bobi died at home on 21 October 2023, at the age of 31.

References




(*) Oldest dog ever. Guinness World Records.
(*) ‘Oldest dog ever,’ Bobi, dethrones current Guinness World Records holder. New York Post.