Bangtan Boys (BTS) is a world-famous K-Pop group consisting of seven members Jin, Suga, J-Hope, RM, Jimin, V and Jungkook. Their agency is BigHit Entertainment which is located in Seoul (South Korea). BTS stands for Bangtan Sonyeondan (방탄 소년단 - Bulletproof Boy Scouts in English) and Beyond The Scene. They are the most popular K-pop group, they have received the most nominations.

Debut

The group debuted with their first song "No More Dream" on June 13 2013 from the album 2cool 4skool. Their most popular music is "DNA" with over 1 billion views on the YouTube platform. "Dynamite" (2020) is the M/V and the most viewed video in less than 24 hours of all of YouTube with 101.2 million views. They are becoming more and more successful, and, BTS is still probably the most famous and popular K-Pop group of all, which is also why they are nicknamed “Kings of K-Pop”. They are the first boy band to have reached 1 billion views on a music video.

Their fans

They call their fans "ARMY" to say army because for them the fans protect them and that they will always be there for them. It's also the abbreviation for "Adorable Representative M.C for Youth. At each BTS performance, the ARMYs shout out the names of the members in a specific order, it's sort of an anthem called a fanchant.

Relationship with them

At their very beginning, when they were not yet very famous, they organized days that they spent with the ARMYs (in South Korea only). Their light-stick is called "Army Bomb".

Record

BTS were the first artists to break the Beatles record, which had never happened since. In the past, they were compared to the group One direction.

Collaborations

The group has made many collaborations with for example: Steve Aoki, Lauv, Nicki Minaj, Halsey...
Or brands like: Puma, Fila, Hyundai, Samsung, McDonald's. They are also ambassadors of Louis Vuitton Men... They are called "The Kings of Advertising"!

World tours

They began a world tour on August 25 2018 in Seoul and performed on October 19 and 20 2018 at the Accord Hotels Arena in Paris, as well as in June at the Stade de France.

Style

In their songs, BTS alternates between a darker, serious style to a younger, lighter style. They mainly focus on Korean hip-hop. They deal with topics such as depression in The Last, the Korean school system in N.O and No More Dream, information in Am I Wrong, and consumerism in Spine Breaker and Go Go. In November 2016, V coined the phrase “I purple you.”, which could be translated simply as I love you, at the BTS fan meeting, explaining that purple represented love “Purple is the last color of the rainbow... Purple means I will trust you and love you for a long time, I just made it up... I wish I could see you for a long time, just like the meaning of purple...we will always trust you and climb the stairs with you. You don't have to help us all the time. You can hold our hands and follow us now. We are going to climb very high. I will make this adventure enjoyable”. This phrase is nowadays used a lot in kpop. Purple has become a symbol of BTS.

With UNICEF

BTS launched a campaign with UNICEF on October 31, 2017 to ensure that children and teens around the world can live a safe life free of fear and violence.

Albums

On August 21, 2020, BTS released the single Dynamite, preceding a new album for the second half of 2020. This is their first song sung entirely in English and the musical style is closer to pop and disco, two genres born in English-speaking countries. With this music video, the group again broke the record for the most viewed music video in 24 hours on YouTube (101.1 million) and also for the largest music video "Premiere" with 3 million simultaneous viewers. In September, BTS had a virtual performance of Dynamite on Fortnite and two of the group's dances were for sale in the game's item store.

Members