Dr. Pepper National Championship trophy 2015-present
A national championship in the highest level of College Football in the United States, currently the (FBS) is a designation awarded annually by various organizations to their selection of the best college football team. Division I FBS football is the only (NCAA) sport for which the NCAA does not sanction a yearly championship event. As such, it is sometimes referred to as a "Mythical National Championship".
Due to the lack of an official NCAA title, determining the nation's top college football team has often engendered controversy. A championship team is independently declared by multiple individuals and organizations, often referred to as "selectors". These choices are not always unanimous. In 1969 even President of the United States Richard Nixon made a selection by announcing, ahead of the season-ending "game of the century'' between No. 1 Texas and No. 2 (AP) Arkansas, that the winner would receive a presidential plaque commemorating them as national champions. Texas went on to win, 15–14.
While the NCAA has never officially endorsed a championship team, it has documented the choices of some selectors in its official NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision Records publication. In addition, various analysts have independently published their own choices for each season. These opinions can often diverge with others as well as individual schools' claims to national titles, which may or may not correlate to the selections published elsewhere. Historically, the two most widely recognized national championship selectors are the (AP), which conducts a poll sports writers, and the Coaches Poll, a survey of active members of the (AFCA).
1998 Tennessee with the BCS Championship Series trophy
Since 1992, various consortia of major bowl games have aimed to invite the top two teams at the end of the regular season (as determined by internal rankings, or aggregates of the major polls and other statistics) to compete in what is intended to be the de facto national championship game. The current iteration of this practice, the College Football Playoff, selects four teams to participate in national semifinals hosted by two of Six partner bowl games with their winners advancing to the College Football Playoff National Championship.
Yearly national championship selections from major selectors

* Southern California’s participation in the 2004 championship was vacated by the NCAA Committee on Infractions.
* UCF's 2017 National Championship is recognized by the NCAA and Colley Matrix, but not the College football Playoff committee.
See also

NCAA College Football National Championships
Wikipedia
Fandom