Cox's Bazar
Cox's Bazar is a city, a fishing port and a tourist destination in southeastern Bangladesh. It is the headquarters of Cox's Bazar district of Chittagong division. Cox's Bazar is famous for its natural beauty. It has the longest uninterrupted natural sandy beach in the world at 122 km. Wide up. It has the largest marine fishing port and submarine cable landing station in Bangladesh. Cox's Bazar was once known as Panoya which literally means yellow flower. Another ancient name is palanquin.

History
From the beginning of the ninth century until the Mughal conquest in 1617, a large part of Chittagong, including Cox's Bazar, belonged to the Arakan State. The Mughal emperor Shah Shuja was fascinated by the natural beauty of Cox's Bazar on his way to Arakan by a mountain road and ordered a camp to be set up there. About a thousand palanquins of his caravan took up position at a place called Dulahajara in Chakriya, Cox's Bazar. Dulhazara means thousand couches. After the Mughals, Tripura and Arkan, then the Portuguese and the British took control of the area.
The name Cox's Bazar comes from Captain Hiram Cox, an officer of the British East India Company. The previous name of Cox's Bazar was Palangki. After the promulgation of the British East India Company Ordinance, 183, Warrant Hosting was appointed as the Governor of Bengal. Hiram Cox was then appointed director general of the couch. Captain Cox tried to resolve the thousand-year-old conflict between Arakanese refugees and local Rakhine and made significant progress in resettling the refugees, but died before the work could be completed (1899). A market was established to commemorate his rehabilitation contribution and was named Mr. Cox's Market. Cox's Bazar Thana was first established in 1854 and the municipality was formed in 189.

Location
Cox's Bazar is 152 km from Chittagong city. Located to the south. Its distance from Dhaka is 414 km. It is the largest tourist destination in Bangladesh. Cox's Bazar can be reached by road and air from the capital Dhaka. The project to set up a railway line from Chittagong to Cox's Bazar is underway. It is expected that direct train service from Dhaka will start by 2022.

Tourist attractions
Many organizations have been formed here focusing on the tourism industry. In addition to many privately owned hotels and motels built by the Bangladesh Tourism Center, there are twenty five-star hotels near the beach. Besides, oyster market has been developed here for tourists. On the border, the Burmese market is made up of foreign goods from Myanmar (former name - Burma), Thailand, China, etc. The only fish aquarium in the country is here. There are also parasailing, water biking, beach biking, Cox Carnival Circus show, Darya Nagar Ecopark, numerous architectures built by Cox's Bazar Development Authority, Future Park, Children's Park and numerous photoshoot spots. There is also the Teknaf Geological Park. There are night beach concerts to enjoy. Illuminating the beach with lighting also allows you to enjoy the sea at night. The largest sea aquarium in the world is being constructed by the Cox's Bazar Development Authority. Cable cars and Disneyland.
Cox's Bazar is inhabited by different tribes or ethnic groups which has made the city more diverse. The Chakma community is the chief among these tribes. The city of Cox's Bazar and the nearby Ramu have a Buddhist temple as a holy pilgrimage site for Buddhists. The temple in Cox's Bazar town has several rare Buddhist statues. These temples and statues are one of the most attractive tourist attractions in Bangladesh.

Cox's Bazar beach
Main article: Cox's Bazar beach
Cox's Bazar Beach is a beach in Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh. At 150 kilometers (93 miles) long, it is the longest natural beach in the world. However, Australia's 151 km (94 miles) long 90-mile beach is currently the longest beach in the world, although some parts of the Australian beach are man-made. Cox's Bazar beach is the most popular tourist attraction in Bangladesh.

Education

Notable educational institutions here are:
Cox's Bazar Government College
Cox's Bazar International University
Cox's Bazar Medical College
Cox's Bazar Hashemia Kamil Madrasa
Cox's Bazar Government Women's College
Cox's Bazar City College
Cox's Bazar DC College
Cox's Bazar Commerce College
Cox's Bazar Harvard College
Cox's Bazar Government Boys High School
Cox's Bazar Government Girls High School
Naderuzzaman High School
Elias Mia Chowdhury High School
Cox's Bazar Municipal Preparatory High School
Baitush-Sharaf Jabbaria Academy
Cox's Bazar KG & Model High School
Cox's Bazar Biam Laboratory School
Cox's Bazar International School
Chaufaldandi Adarsh ​​High School, Chaufaldandi, Sadar, Cox's Bazar.
Sagar Mani High School, Chaufaldandi, Sadar, Cox's Bazar.



Gallery

fileশালা
<gallery mode="packed" heights="150">
file:Cox'sbazar Bus Terminal.JPG|কক্সবাজার কেন্দ্রীয় বাস টার্মিনাল
file:Submarine Landed in BD.JPG|বাংলাদেশের সাবমেরিন কেবল ল্যান্ডিং স্টেশন কক্সবাজারে অবস্থিত।
file:Cox's Bazaar Fishermen.jpg|জেলেদের মাছ ধরার ট্রলার
file:Cox's Bazar boats.jpg|কক্সবাজার শহরের অদূরে সমুদ্র সৈকত
file:Sayeman Beach, Cox's Bazar (01).jpg|সায়মান সৈকত
file:Balloon-flying.jpg|সমুদ্রসৈকতে বেলুন উড্ডয়ন
file:CoxBazar Beach.JPG|কক্সবাজার সমুদ্র সৈকত
file:CoxBazar Beach 2.JPG|কক্সবাজার সমুদ্র সৈকত
file:Cox Bazar Marine Drive 1.JPG|কক্সবাজার মেরিন ড্রাইভ
file:Coxbazar Himchari 1.JPG|হিমছড়ী
file:Coxbazar Himchari.JPG|হিমছড়ী
file:Sampan at cox'sbazar beach.JPG|কক্সবাজারের সমুদ্রে সাম্পান
file:Cox'sbazar beach.JPG|কক্সবাজার সমুদ্র সৈকত
file:সুর্যাস্ত(কক্সবাজার).jpg|সূর্যাস্ত,কলাতলি বিচ থেকে
file:Sunset at cox'sbazar.JPG|কক্সবাজার সৈকতে সূর্যাস্ত
file:Cox's Bazar sunset.JPG|সূর্যাস্ত
file:Cox's Bazar 100.jpg
file:Hotel Sea Place.jpg
file:Hotel Sea Place 1.jpg
file:Inani bich01.jpg|alt=সাইফুল ইসলাম|ইনানি বিচ কক্স’বাজার
file:সাম্পান, কক্সবাজার.jpg
</gallery>

References