Deep Rock Galactic, or DRG, is a first-person shooter video game developed by Ghost Ship Games and published by Coffee Stain in 2018. The game was released for PC and is also available for consoles.
It focuses on mining solo or in groups of four players on a planet called Hoxxes IV, with no defined story.

Gameplay

About the Game
Deep Rock Galactic focuses on cargo missions, where you must complete primary objectives, as well as secondary objectives for recovery, and climb with the local wildlife. Each available biome on Hoxxes IV features both peaceful alien creatures (such as Loot Grubs) and aggressive ones (Glyphids). Dwarves have dual firearms, caving tools, and support tools to overcome obstacles and continue their mission. Often, during the mission, a plague breaks out, and the dwarves must have enough ammunition to defeat it, which usually takes more than 2 or 3 minutes. Upon completion of the missions, the player is awarded credits and XP, depending on the difficulty and length of the mission, which is added to the completion of the cave.

Dwarves
In Deep Rock Galactic, there are four classes available: Gunner, Scout, Driller, and Engineer. During the tutorial, you play as a Gunner, who has a machine gun and a heavy revolver. You can change classes depending on the player's content or depending on the mission, which favors one class over the others.

Gunner: This class is a heavy class and deals more damage than the other classes. With a rotary cannon, a heavy revolver, a slingshot, and a shield, it is one of the most important in the game.
Driller: This is a heavy class that allows you to create new routes and facilitate access to others. With a lancet, a pistol, an awl, and a bomb, you can craft one of the most useful items in the game.
Scout: This is the lightest class, being the fastest in the game. With an assault rifle, a short rifle, a grappling hook, and a flare gun, you can light the fireplace.
Engineer: This is a medium class, with an autoscope, a submachine gun, sentry turrets, and a platform cannon. It helps any class stay on foot.

If any class reaches level 25, it must complete a promotion quest. Whether completing the quest alone or in a group, go to the memorial hall. You must pay a certain amount of credits and minerals to obtain the promotion (This is not available in the game from the moment you start it).

Weaponry and Equipment

Gunner

Primary

"Leadstorm" Minigun
"Thunderhead" Double-Barreled Weapon
"Hurricane" Rocket Launcher


Secondary

"Bulldog" Heavy Revolver
BRT7 Burst Cannon
ArmsKore Railgun


Speleology

Zipline Launcher


Support

Shield Generator


Grenades

Sticky Grenade
Incendiary Grenade
Cluster Grenade


Driller

Primary

CRSPR Flamethrower
Cryo Cannon
Corrosive Sludge Bomber


Secondary

Subata 120
Experimental Plasma Cannon
Colette Microwave Cannon


Speleology

Reinforced Drillers


Support

C4


Grenades

Axe
High-Explosive Grenade
Neurotoxin Grenade


Scout

Primary

Deepcore GK2 Assault Rifle
M1000 Classic
DRAK-25 Plasma Rifle



Secondary

Double-Barreled Shotgun
Zhukov NUK17 (Akimbo)
Nishanka Bolshart X-80 Crossbow



Speleology

Grappling Hook


Support

Flare Gun


Engineer

Primary

Warhog 210 Automatic Shotgun
Stubby Voltaic Submachine Gun
LOK-1 Smart Rifle


Secondary

Deepcore 40mm Grenade Launcher
Breach Cutter
Frag Defractor


Speleology

Platform Gun


Support

Sentry Gun Platform


Grenade

L.U.R.E
Plasma Grenade
Proximity Grenade


Missions
There are a wide variety of missions, which it expands as you unlock new tasks and or you level up. The missions are as follows:

Mining Expedition. Mine a certain amount of Morkite. That's all.
Refining. Build pipelines that connect to pumps located in liquid Morkite wells, defend the refinery, and repair any pipelines damaged during refining.
Extraction. Mine a certain amount of Aquarq, which is found on the walls and can be located by a blue light.
Industrial Sabotage. Hack into power plants and remove support stacks to expose the Watcher and defeat it in a battle (as a mini-boss).
Elimination. Kill the glyphic dreadnoughts. You only need to find the cocoons and destroy them, but then you must focus your fire on the dreadnought's weak points.
Egg Collection. Similar to the Mining Expedition, but you must search for and collect alien eggs.
Deep Scanner. Find resonance crystals, connect them to a scanner, and perform triangulation. Once this is done, a drill will take you to a Morkite geode, where you must collect Morkite seeds.
Rescue Operation. Repair mini-MULES, reestablish connection with the transport pod, and attempt to recover the lost contents.
Escort. Protect the drilldozer ("Doretta") and extract the Omoran heartstone

Some missions have side quests that grant a completion bonus. Additionally, as you gain experience in the game, there will be missions with known modifications, such as hazards and anomalies, that alter gameplay.

Seasons
Deep Rock Galactic has been offering several seasons since 2021, where players must progress through the Performance Pass (found in the terminal near the drop pod) to earn rewards. There are 100 tiers, each with storylines for the reward tree, minerals, credits, paints, and even cosmetic items for your dwarf. The available seasons are as follows:

Season 1: Rival Incursion
Season 2: Rival Escalation
Season 3: Plaguefall
Season 4: Critical Corruption
Season 5: Drilling Deeper


Downloadable Content
The game includes DLC, consisting of cosmetic items for dwarves and their gear. It also includes a soundtrack. It is compatible with Ghost Ship Games.
Its DLCs are:

Dark Future
MegaCorp
Roughneck
Dawn of the Dread
Rival Tech
Robot Rebellion
Biohazard
Decontaminator
Order of the Deep
Skullcrusher
Supporter Upgrade
Supporter Upgrade II
Content Creator Partner
Game Soundtrack


Other Releases

Deep Rock Galactic: Survivor
Developed by Funday Games, this game is presented as an automatic survival shooter. Considered a "Bullet Hell," it puts you in the shoes of a dwarf with the goal of completing missions and eliminating endless hordes of alien monsters. Available in Early Access

Deep Rock Galactic: Rogue Core
Using the same engine as the original Deep Rock Galactic, Rogue Core is a spin-off with a roguelite structure. Currently, much is unknown about it. Its estimated release date is Q4 2025 in Early Access.