Disneyland Paris logoDisneyland Paris is a tourist complex located in Marne-la-Vallée, 32 km east of Paris, in Seine-et-Marne. It is the only tourist complex of the Walt Disney Company in Europe. It opened on April 12, 1992.
The resort has been called Euro Disney Resort (usually called Euro Disney, from 1992 to 1994), Disneyland Resort Paris (from 2002 to 2009) and Disneyland Paris (from 1994 to 2002, and again from 2009 to the present).
The complex consists of two theme parks, Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park, the Disney Village entertainment area (including restaurants, cinemas and shops), the Disneyland golf course, 7 Disney hotels and 8 partner hotels, the two RER stations of Serris-Montévrain - Val d'Europe and Marne-la-Vallée - Chessy, the Marne-la-Vallée - Chessy TGV station, shopping centers and others, as well as the upcoming Villages Nature holiday village.
Disneyland is Europe's leading tourist destination, with over 12 million visitors per year. Disneyland's average annual workforce represents approximately 4.5% of private sector employees in the Seine-et-Marne department. Disneyland contributes significantly to France's tourist success.

Parks


Disneyland Park
Disneyland Park is built on the principle of the Enchanted Kingdom, which it shares with Disneyland California, Disneyland Florida, Disneyland Hong Kong, Disneyland Tokyo and Disneyland Shanghai. The park was opened in 1992. It is made up of several parts, each with its own theme: Main Street, USA (19th century American street ), Fantasyland (dedicated to fairy tales), Discoveryland (dedicated to the future seen by visionaries), Adventureland (dedicated to tropical areas and adventure) and Frontierland (dedicated to the American West).
Sleeping Beauty Castle is located in the center of the park. Some of the main attractions of Disneyland Park include Space Mountain: Mission 2, Buzz Lightyear: Laser Battle, It's a Small World, Pirates of the Caribbean, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Peril, Big Thunder Mountain (or The Mine Train ) and Phantom Manor , "Peter Pan" Stars Tour, Stars Wars.

Walt Disney Studios Park
To learn more, read the article Walt Disney Studios Park
Walt Disney Studios Park is an adaptation of Disney's Hollywood Studios park in Florida. It opened in 2002, the 10th Anniversary  of Disneyland Paris. It is a park with a cinema theme. It has several flat sets, similar to those used on filming locations, as well as a large water tower with Mickey's ears, because every Hollywood studio had this type of water tower in the 1950s.
It is divided into several parts, like Disneyland Park. It has several flagship attractions, including The Twilight Zone – Tower of Terror , Crush 's Coaster, Rock 'n' Roller Coaster and Ratatouille: The Totally Crazy Adventure of Remy .

The site
Construction of Euro Disney Resort began in 1987, and the park was not opened for the first time until 1992. The park covers 19.43 km2. It is located 32 km from Paris, in the new town of Marne-la-Vallée, mainly in the territory of Chessy.

Ecology
By 2023, Disneyland plans to install 67,500 solar panels. They will be in the Disneyland Paris parking lot and will provide shade for cars.