A Pembroke Welsh Corgi
A dog (Scientific name: Canis lupus familiaris) is a domestic animal. Dogs have descended from wolves. Many people keep dogs in their homes as pets. Dogs have been bred to do certain jobs such as rounding up sheep on a farm or ranch. Dogs are members of fire-fighting teams and police squads. Some dogs became movie and television stars in the past like Lassie and Rin Tin Tin.
Dogs have been called "man's best friend" because they can be loyal and like being around humans.
There are currently over 200 registered dog breeds. Some are extinct but nowadays, with the right resources and right dogs, many breeders are trying to bring them back. Some of the more known breeds are: the Golden Retriever, German Shepherd, Labrador, Dalmatian, Dachshund, Corgi, Border Collie and Chihuahua.
Some nearly unknown breeds are: the Azawakh, Estrela Mountain Dog, Xoloitzcuintli, Chinook, Telomian, Catalburun and the Mudi.
There are hypoallergenic dogs as well, such as poodles, which will not cause an allergic reaction if a dog-allergic person is near, even if it is severe.
Dogs have high prey drives. They will kill, if not trained otherwise, any small animals. Some larger dogs such as Irish Wolfhounds and Giant Schnauzers can also kill a fully grown reindeer.

Evolution
The earliest remains generally accepted to be those of a domesticated dog were discovered in Bonn-Oberkassel, Germany. Contextual, isotopic, genetic, and morphological evidence shows that this dog was not a local wolf. The dog was dated to 14,223 years ago and was found buried along with a man and a woman, all three having been sprayed with red hematite powder and buried under large, thick basalt blocks. The dog had died of canine distemper. Earlier remains dating back to 30,000 years ago have been described as Paleolithic dogs, but their status as dogs or wolves remains debated because considerable morphological diversity existed among wolves during the Late Pleistocene.
This timing indicates that the dog was the first species to be domesticated in the time of hunter-gatherers, which predates agriculture. DNA sequences show that all ancient and modern dogs share a common ancestry and descended from an ancient, extinct wolf population that was distinct from any modern wolf lineage. Some studies have posited that all living wolves are more closely related to each other than to dogs, while others have suggested that dogs are more closely related to modern Eurasian wolves than to American wolves.
The dog is a classic example of a domestic animal that likely travelled a commensal pathway into domestication. The questions of when and where dogs were first domesticated have taxed geneticists and archaeologists for decades. Genetic studies suggest a domestication process commencing over 25,000 years ago, in one or several wolf populations in either Europe, the high Arctic, or eastern Asia. In 2021, a literature review of the current evidence infers that the dog was domesticated in Siberia 23,000 years ago by ancient North Siberians, then later dispersed eastward into the Americas and westward across Eurasia, with dogs likely accompanying the first humans to inhabit the Americas. Some studies have suggested that the extinct Japanese wolf is closely related to the ancestor of domestic dogs.

Breeds
Main article: Dog breed
Further information: Dog type
Dogs are the most variable mammal on earth, with around 450 globally recognized dog breeds. In the Victorian era, directed human selection developed the modern dog breeds, which resulted in a vast range of phenotypes. Most breeds were derived from small numbers of founders within the last 200 years. Since then, dogs have undergone rapid phenotypic change and have been subjected to artificial selection by humans. The skull, body, and limb proportions between breeds display more phenotypic diversity than can be found within the entire order of carnivores. These breeds possess distinct traits related to morphology, which include body size, skull shape, tail phenotype, fur type, and colour. Their behavioural traits include guarding, herding, hunting, retrieving, and scent detection. Their personality traits include hypersocial behavior, boldness, and aggression. Present-day dogs are dispersed around the world. An example of this dispersal is the numerous modern breeds of European lineage during the Victorian era.