Donald J. Trump
Donald John Trump (born 14 June 1946 in New York City) is the incumbent President of the United States since 20 January 2025. He previously served as 45th President of the United States from 2017–2021. He is a member of the Republican Party.
Following his father’s footsteps, Trump began a notable career as a real estate developer and businessman. He has written more than fourteen books. His first book, The Art of the Deal, was published in 1987. From 2004 to 2015, Trump hosted and produced the popular television show, The Apprentice.
Trump announced his candidacy for the President of the United States on June 16, 2015. He accepted the Republican nomination in July of 2016. On 8 November 2016, he defeated Hillary Clinton during the presidential election. Donald Trump became the 45th new American president on the 20th January 2017. He has three older siblings and one younger brother. Trump attended the New York Military Academy and the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce at the University of Pennsylvania.
The work of the Trump Administration included reforming the U.S. tax code; renegotiating trade agreements with Mexico, Canada, China, Japan, and South Korea; expanding the military; defeating the self-proclaimed Islamic State (ISIS); responding to the opioid crisis; improving access to healthcare for veterans; responding to the COVID-19 global pandemic; appointing Federal judges, including the nomination of three U.S. Supreme Court justices; and lowering the cost of prescription drugs.
In 2019, President Trump was impeached by the U.S. House of Representatives for abuse of power by soliciting the interference of Ukraine in the 2020 U.S. presidential election and obstruction of Congress by directing defiance of certain subpoenas issued by the House of Representatives. A trial in the U.S. Senate found the President not guilty of the charges brought against him.
Trump won the 2024 United States presidential election, running against Democrat Kamala Harris.
Trump is owner of The Trump Organization. He is married to Melania Trump. Trump had made a few unusual comments during the election, for example he wants to build a wall at the American-Mexican border and wants a shut-down for Muslims entering the USA.
Trump is the third president that has been impeached, the first being Andrew Johnson and the second being Bill Clinton. On 12 January 2021, he was impeached a second time, making him the only president to be impeached twice.














Presidents of the United States of America



George Washington • John Adams • Thomas Jefferson • James Madison • James Monroe • John Quincy Adams • Andrew Jackson • Martin Van Buren • William Henry Harrison • John Tyler • James K. Polk • Zachary Taylor • Millard Fillmore • Franklin Pierce • James Buchanan • Abraham Lincoln • Andrew Johnson • Ulysses S. Grant • Rutherford B. Hayes • James A. Garfield • Chester A. Arthur • Grover Cleveland • Benjamin Harrison • Grover Cleveland • William McKinley • Theodore Roosevelt • William Howard Taft • Woodrow Wilson • Warren G. Harding • Calvin Coolidge • Herbert Hoover • Franklin D. Roosevelt • Harry S. Truman • Dwight D. Eisenhower • John F. Kennedy • Lyndon B. Johnson • Richard Nixon • Gerald Ford • Jimmy Carter • Ronald Reagan • George H. W. Bush • Bill Clinton • George W. Bush • Barack Obama • Donald Trump • Joe Biden