Not to be confused with Downball (Squares and ball game)
School Playground Wall
Downball bounces on ground before wall


Downball is a game of bouncing a ball against a wall and taking it in turns to hit it back with your hand.
It is a popular schoolyard game most similar to other hand squash games.
In reference to Australian Primary Schools: "The most popular ball game played against a wall in today’s schools"  (*)
Downball is similar to other wall and ball games in that a wall is required. However one rule sets the game apart from other wall and ball games. The rule is that once the player hits the ball, the ball must bounce once then hit the wall next. Otherwise play stops and last player to hit the ball is out.
The downward path of the ball so that it bounces before hitting the wall is where the "down" part of the name Downball comes from.  This feature of the game provides for more time being available to get to the ball and take a shot which allows a slower paced game and suits group play better than other similar games.
Group play is the most common form of the game and the number of players is only limited by the size of the wall and the available space. The server holds serve until they default their serve or go out. Players take turns returning the ball. Players go out if their attempt to return the ball is not successful.  Also if the ball bounces twice after rebounding of the wall then the player closest to the ball goes out. Play continues until all but one player is out and the last remaining player is the winner of that game.
In primary schools it is commonly played at recess (‘recess’ is the term describing free playtime in mid-morning) and lunchtime.
Downball is commonly played with a tennis ball or rubber ball on a wall of a school building or school playground. It is also played in community playgrounds on multipurpose walls and on practice walls at community tennis clubs.

Downball naming conventions in Australia

For many years in Australia both Downball and Downball (squares game) have coexisted with both games being called "Downball".  This naming problem is based on local folk-law or tradition.  Many schools have a both a wall and squares court in the playground and so kids find different ways to differentiate between the two games.
Where Downball is the more popular game the name Downball refers to Downball.  Where Downball (squares game) is the more popular game the name Downball refers to Downball (squares game).

North American variation
This variation of Downball has the defining ball bouncing on the ground before the wall. The "Chinese" variation (*)
is a game version that utilise street sidewalk squares as a court against a building wall.