45px|alt=|link=





You're reading a star article










Duolingo's current logo
Luis von Ahn
Duolingo is a website to learn languages for free. It was released on November 30, 2011. Currently the site offers courses in 28 languages. The most used are English, Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese and Dutch. It also has an application for iOS, Android, Windows Phone and Chrome OS.

History
The project was initiated by the professor Luis von Ahn and the postgraduate student Severin Hacker. In its development, it used principally the programing language Python, (*)  and with him participated Antonio Navas, Vicki Cheung, Marcel Uekermann, Brendan Meeder, Hector Villafuerte and Jose Fuentes.

Working methodology
To participate in the courses, the user must create an account with an active and valid email address, where the user will receive the confirmation. Users are periodically sent reminders to practice the language. The user also can help to translate web pages and others documents. (*)  It is important to have backing material such as dictionaries.

Services

Translations
In addition to courses, Duolingo provides to its users a space where can apply the knowledge gained through text translation. People can only access this space through the website and not through phones applications.

Duolingo Test Center
On July 22, 2004, Duolingo released Duolingo Test Center, a platform of an official English certification. This can be done in the website, iOS or Android, where the tests are supervised through camera and microphone. The tests require 20 minutes, cost $20 American dollars (*)  and  qualifies the student from a note of 0-10.

Duolingo for Schools
Duolingo is used increasingly in classrooms. For example, in Costa Rica and Guatemala, Duolingo has been used in public schools as a pilot project carried out by the government. In January 2015, Duolingo launched a project entitled Duolingo for Schools, in order to provide teachers a control panel through which they can follow the progress of their students in a particular language. The board helps the teacher to understand the weaknesses and strengths of each student individually. (*)

List of languages for English speakers

Duolingo has multiple languages available for English speakers (Including 3 which are constructed or fictional), and more are currently in development.

Currently released




Arabic
Czech
Danish
Dutch
Esperanto (constructed language)
French
Finnish
German
Greek
Haitian Creole (Currently in Beta)
Hawaiian
Hebrew
High Valyrian (fictional language)
Hindi
Hungarian (Currently in Beta)
Indonesian
Italian
Irish
Japanese
Klingon (fictional language) (Currently in Beta)
Korean
Mandarin Chinese
Navajo (Currently in Beta)
Norwegian
Polish
Portuguese (Brazilian Portuguese)
Romanian
Russian
Scots Gaelic
Spanish (Latin American Spanish)
Swahili
Swedish
Ukrainian
Vietnamese
Welsh
Yiddish (Currently in Beta)
Zulu




Hatching

"Hatching" means the course is still in development.

Xhosa



Unavailable for English speakers

Duolingo has courses available for speakers of other languages as well, but Duolingo courses for non-English speakers are very limited, with most of the available languages only offering English as a course. All other available languages offer English as a course.
However, the Guarani and Catalan courses are only available for Spanish speakers, which has the most available courses for speakers of non-English languages, with 9.

List of courses for speakers of non-English languages




Arabic: English, French, German, Swedish, Spanish (Hatching)
Bengali: English (Hatching)
Chinese: English, Spanish, French (Hatching)
Czech: English
Dutch: English
French: English, Spanish, Italian, German, Portuguese
German: English, Spanish, French
Greek: English
Hindi: English
Hungarian: English
Indonesian: English
Italian: English, French, German, Spanish (Hatching)
Japanese: English
Korean: English
Polish: English
Portuguese: English, Spanish, French, German, Italian, Esperanto
Punjabi: English (Hatching)
Romanian: English (Hatching)
Russian: English, German, French, Spanish, Swedish (Hatching)
Spanish: English, French,  Italian, Portuguese, German, Catalan, Guarani, Esperanto, Russian
Tagalog: English (Hatching)
Tamil: English (Hatching)
Telugu: English (Hatching)
Thai: English
Turkish: English, German, Russian, French (Hatching)
Ukranian: English
Vietnamese: English




References



Links

Official website
Duolingo for Schools
Duolingo Test Center










fr:Duolingo
wp:Duolingo
(*) What language is Duolingo written in
(*) Translating the Web While You Learn
(*) Duolingo offers language-certification tests via mobile devices
(*) Duolingo Launches Free Language Learning Platform For Schools