Ekushe Padak
The Ekushey Padak is a national and second highest civilian award in Bangladesh. The Ekushey Padak has been awarded since 1987 to recognize prominent linguists, linguists, writers, artists, academics, researchers, journalists, economists, contributors to poverty alleviation, social personalities and organizations at the national level. This medal was introduced in 1986 in memory of the martyrs of the language movement. Till 2012, Ekushey Padak has been awarded to 361 meritorious persons and 2 organizations.

History
General Ziaur Rahman, the first military ruler of Bangladesh, introduced the Ekushey Padak in 1986.

Awarding the first Ekushey Padak
Poet Kazi Nazrul Islam was awarded the Ekushey Padak for the first time at a function held at Bangabhaban. Later, poets Jasim Uddin and Begum Sufia Kamal were awarded the Ekushey Padak.

Medal
Each medalist is awarded a medal, a certificate of honor, a replica and a prize money. The Ekushey Padak was awarded a medal weighing 35 grams made of 18 carat gold; Designed by Nitun Kundu. Initially, the prize money was Rs 25,000; At present it has been raised to Rs 2 lakh.

Reward method
The following procedures are followed in awarding Ekushey Padak.

Proposals are invited from all the Ministries / Departments, Deputy Commissioners, Departments / Offices / Agencies under the Ministry of Culture and Government Universities as per the Annexure Table mentioning the issue of awarding. Press releases are published through all electronic and print channels to propose or nominate the names of the persons eligible to receive this award. Full details are also published on the website of the Ministry of Information.
Those who have won Ekushey Padak or Swadhinata Padak in the past can also send nomination proposals to qualified persons or organizations.
Proponents of her case have been working to make the actual transcript of this statement available online.
The Cabinet Committee on National Awards and the Ekushey Padak Nomination Selection Sub-Committee of the Ministry of Culture select the preliminary list or send it to the Prime Minister after selecting the appropriate person or institution at the discretion of the Cabinet Committee.
With the approval of the Prime Minister, in the first week of February, the names of the selected persons (classes) / institutions (s) are published on radio, television and newspapers. Prior to that, the Ministry of Culture contacted the person / institution (husband / wife / suitable heir of the person selected in the case of posthumous medal) and took consent letter from them to accept the medal.
If any person / organization refuses to accept the medal or does not give their opinion at the specified time, it is reported to the Cabinet Division. নাম The name of the person / organization is not included in the final list of medal winners and their names are not declared as medal winners.
The Honorable President / Prime Minister hands over the medals to the recipients in the year in which they are announced.



Reward fields

Language movement
Liberation War
Education
Research
Language and literature
Art
Journalism
Science and technology
Social work
Economy
Any other field designated by the government (e.g.: medical, poverty alleviation)



List of award recipients

List of Ekushey Padak Winners (196–69)
List of Ekushey Medal winners (1980–69)
List of Ekushey Padak winners (1990–99)
List of Ekushey Padak winners (2000–09)
List of Ekushey Padak winners (2010–19)
List of Ekushey Medal winners (2020–29)