Eneryeti is a Spanish energy drink brand created by Eneryeti Company, formerly known as Teseo Industria y Comercio.
Released in 2013, it became soon the most sold energy drink within the Spanish market, expanding his lineup to the other markets within the penninsula. The brand has up to 20 flavors, from the basic to the Cream lineup (which contains milk). These also stand out for keeping the recommended price of 1€ each can, excepting the Cream lineup, which it cost 1,20€
Eneryeti was created with the purpose of having a demography of teens and adults. Eneryeti's caffenie ranges from  20 mg to 30 mg/100 ml, which is safe to consume with moderation.

History


2013-2014
The brand was founded and released within the metropolitan market in Madrid around late April to early May 2013. The first flavors were Original and Tropyc. They also released a bottle format as well. In 2014, the brand became so successful that his line expanded to the other sides of Spain

2015-2018
In 2015, Anyel and Devil got released. People loved Anyel for his unique flavor mimicing coconut milk, while Devyl was a limited time release, becoming a collection heirloom. A year later, they released the Zyro variant of the original flavor, which it was well received.
In 2017, Mayic (the sugar free Atomyc flavor), and Pinky were released. Pinky was better received than Mayic, discontinuing the flavor a couple of years later
In 2018, Kofy Cola and Wyki were released. However, since these flavors were the most underrated among the other flavors, these were discontinued three years later.

2019-2021
In 2019, they made history as they released Mango Go! the first mango flavored energy drink ever, selling more than 500k cans after a month of it's release
2020 was a rough year due to the pandemic, but they released Caribe, Splash and Exotic
2021 was the year Eneryeti got rid of it's signature plastic cap, to become more eco-friendly and cool, saving up to 150 tons of plastic. Flavors like Wow, Zen, Zyro Zafiro, Habana and Punch were released

2022-2025
In 2022, they simplified their logo and released Feroz, Bloom, Tryhard and the Cream Cheesecake, the first energy drink with dairy in it.
2023 marks the 10th anniversary of the brand. They released San Francisco, Zeus and Cream Vainilla Ice
In 2024, Eneryeti joined forces with the Spanish Football selection, releasing limited time collection cans, Eneryeti Dragón and a limited time flavor that was undercover under the name of Energía de la Selección. Later on, that limited time flavor was revelated as a marshmallow flavor. La Pera was also released as a sugar-free drink. As it's name suggests, it tastes like pear juice. The Spanish football team won the Eurocup, making it the golden year for Eneryeti and it's partnership.
2025 starts with the discontinuation of Eneryeti Zeus and Eneryeti Cream Vainilla Ice due to the low sales since 2023. In February they released Mamba Negra, a grape flavored energy drink.

Flavors


OG: Sweet and savory default flavor
Tropyc: Green Apple, Pineapple, Grenade and a lollipop hint
Anyel: Coconut. According to polls, this is the favorite flavor yet
Devyl: Orange. Discontinued flavor, a collector's can



Zen: Peach
Wow: Melon bubblegum
Exotic: Guayaba
Splash: Watermelon
Caribe: Cononut and pineapple (kinda like Piña Colada)
Mango Go!: Mango
Pinky: Strawberries and other red fruits
Feroz: Blueberry and rasperry
Habana: Lime and mint
San Francisco: Grenade and fruit cocktail
Dragón: Dragonfruit



Cream Cheesecake: Strawberries and cream (contains lactose)
Cream Vainilla Ice: Vanilla ice cream (contains lactose). Discontinued flavor
Bloom: Cherry bubblegum
Tryhard: Green Apple, the first Eneryeti focused to gamers
Punch: Orange, without fizz
Energía de la Selección (Limited Edition): Marshmallow



Zeus: Lemon sorbet. Discontinued flavor
Zyro Original: Just like the OG, without sugar
Zyro Zafiro: Citric
La Pera: Pear
Mamba Negra: Grape