Enthusia Professional Racing is a japanese racing videogame released by Konami in 2005 for the PlayStation 2. The game, despite of being extremely loyal to the car's physics, is actually one of the most underrated among it's competitors like Gran Turismo 4 and TOCA 3.
Enthusia is known for it's incredible accuracy on every car's behavior while turning and braking, with over 300 physical parameters in development. The game also implements a VGS (Virtual Gravity System) that works like a telemetry telling the G-Force, tire pressure and chassis movement.

Gameplay
The game has several modes, but among these, Enthusia Life and Driving Revolution are the main course.

Enthusia Life
Enthusia Life works like a story mode where you start at the very bottom, and by winning races and keeping Enthusia Points multiplied by your driving skills, you will start to climb up in the leaderboard. The goal is to achieve the 1st place on the final week.

Driving Revolution
This gamemode is an arcade-like mode. All you need to do is getting through green gates at the right speed to get the perfect score. Missing the gates, hitting the walls or going faster on the gates will make you lose points.
D Rank is the worst score to achieve. It requires a minimum rank of C, which can be improved to B, A and S
This mode has 18 levels, being even more difficult each one

Time Trial + Races
With the courses and cars you unlocked in both gamemodes, you can create your custom race on several car types or improve your times on Time Trial.

Game features


Courses
There are 23 courses, which some of them are unlocked by default. The other racecourses can be unlocked by progressing on Enthusia Life or Driving Revolution:

City Courses


Marco Strada: Venice, Italy (it has a night + rain variant)
Rev City: Somewhere in Tokyo, Japan
Victoria Garden/Road: London, UK (The Victoria Road variant has the full layout)
Route de la Seine: Paris, France
Pacific Gateway: San Francisco, CA
Burgenschlucht/Wintertraum: Somewhere in Germany (Wintertraum is the snowy variant)
Autum Hill/Mountain: In the outskirts of a village in Japan (Autum mountain has the full layout)



Race Courses

Cosmic Eggway/Winding: Egg shaped racecouse near NASA (Winding has an inner layout)
Tsukuba: Real life racetrack in Japan (has a night + rain variant)
Löwenseering: Somewhere in Germany
Nürburgring Nordscheilfe: The largest and hardest real life racecouse in Germany
Speediapolis Ring: Based on Indy Brickyard



Point to Point + Off-road


Off-Road

Mirage Crossing: Desert point to point rally course
Mystic Caveway: Off-road course under caveways
Edge of the road: In the outskirts of Mystic Caveway
Wild West Enduro: Stadium Off-Road course



Point to Point

Dragon Range: Japanese mountain pass
Ocean Bridge: Highway in the middle of the ocean. It seems to have 1km on Time Trial, but it seems to be an endless track (It has a rain variant)
Airport Square: A wide space on an airport



Unlocking cars
Cars can be unlocked via winning races on Enthusia Life as a roulette, or achieving high scores during the Driving Revolution gamemode.... Up to 120 cars can be collected.
It goes from classic cars like the Morris Cooper, city cars like the Ford Mustang MACH 1, sport cars like the Honda NSX to even race cars like the Mazda 787B

Reviews
The game got decent scores. Praised by it's physics and music, yet critiziced by it's gamemodes. The game didn't beat Gran Turismo nor TOCA 3, becoming one of the most underrated videogames on the PS2 era.
Famitsu gave 8 and three 7s, giving a total score of 29 of 40.