in French: Candide. chapter I. Voltaire
Places where French is spoken
French (Français) is a language spoken in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, and several countries of Northern Africa (Tunisia, Gabon, etc.) and Western Africa (for example, Uganda), in the Caribbean (places like Martinique) and elsewhere. It is also the official language of the Canadian province of Quebec and one of the official languages of New Brunswick. French is a Latin language like Spanish and Italian.

Writing system

French uses the Latin alphabet just as English does, with the addition of several accent marks that are not used in English: the acute accent or accent aigu (é), the grave accent or accent grave (è), and the circumflex accent or accent circonflexe (ê). There is also a diacritical mark called a cedilla or cédille, which is placed under the letter c (ç) to give it a soft pronunciation (like an "s" sound) in certain situations where it would otherwise be pronounced hard (like a "k").

Speakers

There are 110 million people who can speak French natively. But there are 300 million French speakers total, which means that 190 million people decided to learn the language as adults! This is because there is a lot of interesting literature in French. French is also a language often used in diplomacy.
300px|thumb|French is spoken all around the world.
French was first spoken in France. Four of France's neighbors — Belgium, Switzerland, Luxembourg, and Monaco — also use French as one of their official languages. And because of colonization, French is spoken in Canada (the majority in Québec), Louisiana, some countries in Africa, and other places around the world.

History
French evolved from the Latin language, just like Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, and Romanian. In the 1600s, French people came to Canada and settled in the area we now call Québec.  Some French people (who were expelled from Canada) also settled in Louisiana, which was named in honor of King Louis XIV of France. Louisiana is now a state of the United States. In the 1800s, France conquered large parts of northern, western, and central Africa. As France took over ruling these territories and their populations, they established French as the language of instruction in schools, and as the official language of the government. Over time, French became the second native language of many African people, although local languages are still used most often in the home. Although France no longer rules these former colonies, they still use French in daily life.

Authors and poets

Some famous authors or poets in this language are:

Victor Hugo (1802 – 1885), Les Misérables
Alexandre Dumas (1802 – 1870), Les Trois Mousquetaires (The Three Musketeers)
Jules Verne (1828 – 1905), Vingt mille lieues sous les mers (Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea)
Francois Marie Arouet, better known as Voltaire (1694 – 1778), Zadig ou la Destinée (Zadig, or The Book of Fate)
Gaston Leroux (1868 – 1927), Le Fantôme de l'Opéra (The Phantom of the Opera)



Basic words



Song, poem and story

Petit Papa Noël



Dame Tartine



Frère Jacques


This song can be sung as a 'round', which is when one person or group starts the song, and when they arrive at the end of the first verse, the second person or group begins.
300px

References



Sources

"French language." Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. 31 Mar 2006, 16:33 UTC. 2 Apr 2006, 06:51 http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=French_language&oldid=46334627.
French Wikibook