Ukraine, the second-largest country in Europe, is twice the size of Italy. Bordered on the south by the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. Ukraine shares borders with the eastern European countries of Belarus, Hungary, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, and Slovakia.
Ukraine occupies the southwestern portion of the East European Plain. The country 95% of is flat at an average elevation of 175 metres above sea level. Mountains found in the west (the Carpathians) and in the south of the Crimean Peninsula (the Crimeans mountains). The Carpathian Mountains—one of the most picturesque areas in the country—extend for more than 240 km. The average elevation of the mountains is about 1,500 metres. Mount Hoverla, the highest point in the country, has elevation 2061 m.
The Dnieper, Ukraine’s longest river and Europe’s fourth-longest river, flows down from Russia and Belarus straight through the middle of Ukraine and into the Black Sea in the south. The Dnieper River has hydroelectric dams, huge reservoirs, and many tributaries. Of the total course 2201 km of the Dnieper, 980 km are in Ukraine.
There are many natural lakes in Ukraine, but they are all small. One of the largest is Lake Svityaz, located in the north-west of the country, with an area of ​​28 km² and a depth of 58 m.
Ukraine has the soils of sandy podzolized soil, of extremely fertile Ukrainian chernozems, of chestnut and salinized soils.The chernozems occupy about two-thirds of the country’s area. Ukraine is sometimes called the “breadbasket of Europe.”
Ukraine lies in a temperate climatic zone influenced by moderately warm, humid air from the Atlantic Ocean. Winters in the west are considerably milder than those in the east, in summer the east often experiences higher temperatures than the west. Average annual temperatures range from about 5.5–7 °C in the north to about 11–13 °C in the south.
Ukraine has three main zones of natural vegetation: the Polissya (woodland and marsh), the forest-steppe, and the steppe.
The 1986 accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant created severe environmental problems in northwestern Ukraine. Vast areas of land are contaminated by dangerous short- and long-lived radioactive isotopes, which can deaths from cancer. Contaminated agricultural lands near Chernobyl will be unsafe for thousands of years.
<gallery class="center">
File:Говерла після дощу.jpg|thumb|Ukrainian Carpathians. On the distant horizon - Mount Hoverla
File:Річка Дніпро у Каневі.jpg|thumb|Dnipro River
File:Ковила волосиста1.jpg|thumb|Feather grass - a steppe plant
File:Озеро Світязь з висоти.jpg|Lake Svityaz - the deepest lake in Ukraine
</gallery>