Google Pixel is a brand of portable consumer electronic devices developed by Google that run either ChromeOS or the Pixel version of the Android operating system. The main line of Pixel products consist of Android-powered smartphones, which have been produced since October 2016 as the replacement of the older Nexus, and of which the Pixel 9, Pixel 9 Pro and Pixel 9 Pro XL are the current models. The Pixel brand also includes laptop and tablet computers, as well as several accessories, and was originally introduced in February 2013 with the Chromebook Pixel.

Software
Pixel UI (Pixel Launcher)
Google Pixel UI is an Android skin used for the Pixel phones and the Pixel Tablet, and developed by Google. Starting from first generation of Google Pixel phones, Google had replaced the launcher for their smartphone with Pixel Launcher instead of Google Now Launcher which is the default launcher for Nexus series.
Unlike the Nexus phones, which Google shipped with "stock" Android (AOSP), the Pixel UI that came with the first generation Pixel phones were slightly modified compared to "stock" Android. Currently, Pixel UI and its home launcher are available on Pixel family devices only. (However, third-party modifications allow non-Pixel smartphones to install the Pixel Launcher with Google Now feed integration).
During the press release of Android 4.x "Ice Cream Sandwich", Google had started to replace some of the stock Android apps with Google apps, including the stock Android music apps with Google Play Music, and Android browser with Google Chrome. By the launch of Android 4.4.x "KitKat", most of the stock Android apps had been replaced with Google apps, such as the stock Android gallery being replaced with Google Photos, etc. This also includes the Android home launcher being replaced with the Google Now Launcher, allowing users to access to their Google Now feed more conveniently. However, the rest of the UI was still similar to stock Android, including the settings menu and toggles buttons colors.
Google officially launched the Pixel Launcher and Pixel UI together the Pixel phones; unlike the Google Now Launcher which allowed non Nexus phones to install, the Pixel Launcher was only available on the Pixel phones. Most Android smartphones including Nexus phones are not compatible with the launcher. Some of the modifications Google had done to differentiate Pixel UI with stock Android included the setting toggle's buttons colors, and 24/7 online support which allowed the user to get direct support from Google's customer support.


Phones