Gopal Bhar was a famous storyteller, clown and entertainer of Nadia region in the Middle Ages. His real name is Gopal Chandra Pramanik. He was appointed to the royal court of the famous king Krishnachandra of Nadia district in the eighteenth century. The king included him as one of the Navaratnas among his courtiers. A sculpture of him built in front of the palace of King Krishnachandra at that time is still intact. Later, a new statue of Gopal Bhar was erected on the border of Krishnanagar Municipality.

The story
His life-rich stories, which have been prevalent for more than two hundred years, are still alive and well among the Bengali-speaking people of West Bengal and Bangladesh. How many stories are used almost like proverbs. He is considered to be the equivalent of Mollah Nasiruddin and Birbal.

History and debate
The character of Gopal Bhar has long been a subject of controversy among historians, researchers and linguists. Although Gopal's stories are extremely popular and widely circulated in the society, there is disagreement as to whether Gopal Bhar was real. Many people think that there was no one named Gopal Bhar. But one or the other clown became the favorite of the king. Gopal was a barber. The date of Gopal's birth is not written anywhere. There is no record of his place of birth, no evidence of his property or land as a resident of Krishnanagar. Although the name of Gopal's father was known, nothing was known about his mother and wife. According to Nagendranath Das, Gopal's title was 'Nai'. The Maharaja gave him the title of Hasarnab. Renowned historian and linguist Sukumar Sen says, 'The modern Bengali's curiosity about Gopal Bhar is the seed of the popular tradition that has sprung up about the real or imagined person. Gopal has determined the race. Whatever the arguments of the pros and cons, Gopal Bhar is immersed in the Bengali humorous and folk culture.

Television show

An animated cartoon called Gopal Bhar is being aired on Sony Aat TV centering on him.