This article was translated by Duolingo. There is an ongoing discussion about possible copyright issues.
Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone is the first of seven Harry Potter books, written by J. K. Rowling. It was first released on 26th June 1997.

Summary
The first novel starts with harry living with his aunt, petunia, his uncle, Vernon, and his cousin, Dudley. the Dursleys are horrible to harry and force him to live under the stairs. This is because they desperately want to be normal and harry is anything but normal, which the Dursleys are terrified that somebody will find out. The Dursleys start getting letters addressed to harry: however Vernon does not let harry read them because the letters are from the wizarding world, which they are determined to cut harry off from. the letters keep on coming, whatever the Dursleys do(they even move house which doesn't work) and they are eventually visited by Hagrid, who informs harry that he is a wizard. Hagrid later takes harry to Diagon alley to get the appropriate equipment for the wizarding world. Here he meets Draco Malfoy.
When at platform nine and 3 quarters, he meets the Weasleys, and becomes friends with Ron, who is also about to start Hogwarts. Ron is awestruck as harry finds out that he is basically a celebrity in the wizarding world and is known as "the boy who lived". this is where harry becomes enemies with Draco Malfoy and his gang. They are also introduced to Hermione, who Ron immediately dislikes because she is super smart.
When the reach Hogwarts, Hagrid greets them. he takes the first years across the lake by boat. They are taken to the great hall to be sorted into houses by the sorting hat. Harry begs not to be in Slytherin so the sorting hat instead puts him in Gryffindor, along with Ron and also Hermione. Harry immediately locks horns with potions professor Snape, who instantly dislikes him. Garry also finds out he is amazing on a broom and becomes the youngest Hogwarts's quidditch player. He also receives a nimbus 2000 (the latest broom on the market) from a mystery person.
At the Halloween party, harry and Ron save Hermione from a troll in the girl's bathroom. Ron does this by using the wingardium leviosa spell on the troll's club. After this, the trio become friends.
For Christmas, Harry is surprised to see a small mountain of presents on his bed. One of these presents is his dads invisibility cloak, which Harry will use on many a night time adventure.
When the trio learn that Dumbledore is keeping his friend's philosopher stone safe(which has the power to turn things into gold and grant eternal life), Harry becomes convinced that Snape is going to steal it. this leads them to face the trials to confront Snape. The trials include: fluffy, a 3 headed dog, devils snare, winged keys, a giant chess game, and a potion test. when harry gets past these trials, he finds that it is not Snape but actually Quirrell who is the culprit. Voldemort is revealed to be underneath Quirrell's turban. Voldemort wants the stone to restore his former strength. luckily, Harry manages to hold off Voldemort until Dumbledore. The first novel ends with Harry having to go back to the Dursleys for the summer.