Independence Day Award or Independence Award is the highest civilian honor medal awarded by the Government of Bangladesh. This medal has been awarded every year since 1986 on the Independence Day of Bangladesh in memory of the heroic martyrs of the 1971 Bangladesh War of Independence. This award is given to a person or group who is a citizen of Bangladesh in recognition of their glorious and meritorious contribution in various fields determined by the government in the national life. The award is also given to individuals as well as organizations for their unique and significant contributions to specific areas of national life.
Freedom Award gold medal Each medalist is presented with a 16 carat gold medal weighing 50 grams, a certificate of honor and a cash prize of a certain amount. The amount of money initially paid was twenty thousand. However, since 2013, two lakh rupees has been paid.

History
President Ziaur Rahman introduced the Independence Medal in 1978. This medal has been awarded every year since 1986 on the Independence Day of Bangladesh in memory of the heroic martyrs of the 1971 War of Independence of Bangladesh. The late President Ziaur Rahman was the initiator of this award.

Rewards field
In awarding the Independence Day Award, some of the issues set by the Government of Bangladesh are considered:

War of Independence and Liberation
Science and technology
Medicine
Education
Literature
Culture
Sports
Rural development
Social service / public service
Population control
Public administration
Research and training
Any other field as determined by the Government

Almost every year there is a tradition of giving posthumous rewards to the living as well as for the meritorious contribution.

Sorting method
Proposals are invited from all the Ministries / Divisions of the Government of Bangladesh, Deputy Commissioners, Departments / Offices / Agencies under the Ministry of Culture, mentioning the issue of awarding prizes as per the Annexure Table. Press releases are issued through all electronic and print channels to propose or nominate the names of the eligible candidates. Full details are also published on the website of the Ministry of Information. According to the Cabinet Division, a list is made by the ministers and secretaries after the names of the individuals or organizations are sent. The list was then raised at a meeting of the medal committee. From there the list is sent to the Prime Minister's Office. The Prime Minister can add or subtract from this list. The list was then finalized at a cabinet meeting. The number of awardees will not exceed 10 in any given year, but the Prime Minister can increase this number if he wants.
If any person / organization refuses to accept the medal or does not give their opinion at the specified time, it has to be reported to the Cabinet Division. As a result, the name of the person / organization is not included in the final list of medal winners and their names are not declared as medal winners.
The medal is usually awarded on the eve of Independence Day, in a stylish ceremony attended by various cabinet members and other dignitaries.

List of award recipients

List of Independence Award winners (1986-89)
List of Independence Award winners (1970–69)
List of Independence Award winners (1990–99)
List of Independence Award winners (2000–09)
List of Independence Award winners (2010–19)
List of Independence Award winners (2020-29)