The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is a commercial body of the world's airlines. The airline's 240 airlines carry 74% of the world's passengers. The IATA supports various activities related to aviation and formulates policies and standards. It is headquartered in Montreal, Canada. It has an executive office located in Geneva, Switzerland.

History
IATA was established in April 1945 in Havana, Cuba. In 1919, the International Air Traffic Association was formed in The Hague, Netherlands. That is what was later transformed into IATA. At the time of its inception, the AATA was a member of 57 airlines from 31 countries. In the early stages most of the work of the company was technical. It also assisted in the technical work of the International Civil Aviation Organization or the International Civil Aviation Organization. The Chicago Agreement on International Aviation reflects the work of the IATA. The agreement still regulates international aviation.
The Chicago Agreement did not include all airline routes and integrated arrangements. This resulted in the establishment of bilateral agreements between different airlines. The US-UK Bermuda Agreement was then the only criterion for bilateral agreements between airlines.
Subsequently, the governments of different countries assigned IATA to form an integrated travel cost structure for the airline industry. The aim was to eliminate unjustified competition, set costs for the convenience of passengers and at the same time ensure effective business for airlines. The first IATA Traffic Conference was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. All the participating representatives agreed on an agreement. There were about 400 policies under this agreement.
The field of aviation continues to expand rapidly around the world. As a result, the field of work of IATA is gradually expanding. The activities of IATA increase in the management of various emerging issues in the aviation industry. The importance of travel cost adjustment continued to grow, and in 1978 the United States took the lead in diversifying cost adjustment.