This Biographical article, about a living person, contains no sources.  Unless sources are added to verify the information provided, this article will be deleted!








<indicator Vikidia:Protection Policy|Protection of the article]]="Vikidia:Protection Policy|Protection of the article]]" protectionicon="protectionicon"/>







50px|alt=Protection|link=





Warning: this page is protected!


Only Autoconfirmed users can edit this page.









Official portrait of Joe Biden in 2021
Joseph Robinette ("Joe") Biden Jr. is the 46th president and former Vice President of the United States. Biden served as the 44th vice president during the Obama administration from 2009 to 2017. He is a member of the Democratic Party of the United States. He was elected President in 2020, with Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate. He is the oldest president ever to be elected in the USA.
Joe Biden was born on November 20, 1942 in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Before being the Vice President, he was a United States Senator from Delaware.

2020 election
Joe Biden campaigned in the 2020 election with a moderate platform centered around Climate Change, Global Trade, and reproductive rights. This was provided by VotingSmarter.
He became president on January 20, 2021.



















Presidents of the United States of America



George Washington • John Adams • Thomas Jefferson • James Madison • James Monroe • John Quincy Adams • Andrew Jackson • Martin Van Buren • William Henry Harrison • John Tyler • James K. Polk • Zachary Taylor • Millard Fillmore • Franklin Pierce • James Buchanan • Abraham Lincoln • Andrew Johnson • Ulysses S. Grant • Rutherford B. Hayes • James A. Garfield • Chester A. Arthur • Grover Cleveland • Benjamin Harrison • Grover Cleveland • William McKinley • Theodore Roosevelt • William Howard Taft • Woodrow Wilson • Warren G. Harding • Calvin Coolidge • Herbert Hoover • Franklin D. Roosevelt • Harry S. Truman • Dwight D. Eisenhower • John F. Kennedy • Lyndon B. Johnson • Richard Nixon • Gerald Ford • Jimmy Carter • Ronald Reagan • George H. W. Bush • Bill Clinton • George W. Bush • Barack Obama • Donald Trump • Joe Biden