John F. Kennedy
John Fitzgerald Kennedy (known as Jack and JFK) was an American politician and the 35th president of the United States. He is famous for his assassination and all the conspiracy theories that surround it.

Early life and education
He was born at 83 Beals Street in the Coolidge Corner neighborhood in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917. His father was Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and US ambassador in the United Kingdom, born in 1888, and his mother was Rose Kennedy, born in 1890.
Kennedy graduated from Harvard University. Before World War II began, he tried joining the U.S. Army, but was failed.

Presidency
Kennedy became president on 20 January 1961. He was the youngest president ever elected. He had beaten former Vice President Richard Nixon for the position as president in the 1960 election.
Events during his presidency included the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the start of the Space Race, the building of the Berlin Wall, the African-American Civil Rights Movement, and increased U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War.

Personal
Kennedy married Jacqueline Lee "Jackie" Bouvier on September 12, 1953. He sired three children upon her: Caroline, John Jr. ("John John"), and Patrick, who died shortly after birth. Mrs. Kennedy restored the White House.

Assassination
President Kennedy was assassinated on 22 November 1963, in Dallas, Texas. He was being driven through the city in an open top car with the Governor of Texas. Two shots were fired at Kennedy: one hit his upper back, the second hit his head. The Warren Commission said that Lee Harvey Oswald was the killer. Kennedy was the youngest president to die in office. Lyndon B. Johnson became president after Kennedy's death.



















Presidents of the United States of America



George Washington • John Adams • Thomas Jefferson • James Madison • James Monroe • John Quincy Adams • Andrew Jackson • Martin Van Buren • William Henry Harrison • John Tyler • James K. Polk • Zachary Taylor • Millard Fillmore • Franklin Pierce • James Buchanan • Abraham Lincoln • Andrew Johnson • Ulysses S. Grant • Rutherford B. Hayes • James A. Garfield • Chester A. Arthur • Grover Cleveland • Benjamin Harrison • Grover Cleveland • William McKinley • Theodore Roosevelt • William Howard Taft • Woodrow Wilson • Warren G. Harding • Calvin Coolidge • Herbert Hoover • Franklin D. Roosevelt • Harry S. Truman • Dwight D. Eisenhower • John F. Kennedy • Lyndon B. Johnson • Richard Nixon • Gerald Ford • Jimmy Carter • Ronald Reagan • George H. W. Bush • Bill Clinton • George W. Bush • Barack Obama • Donald Trump • Joe Biden