The Knights of the Round Table were characters in the legends about King Arthur. They were the best knights in King Arthur's kingdom, and lived in King Arthur's castle, Camelot. They were called the Knights of the Round Table because of a special table that was in Camelot, that was round instead of rectangular. This meant that everyone who sat around it was seen as equal.

Code of Chivalry

In order to become a Knight of the Round Table, a knight had to prove he was chivalrous (polite) enough. In the legend, the knights swore a Code of Chivalry, which is much like an oath is today. This meant that they promised to uphold the rules given to them once they became a Knight of the Round Table.
Sir Thomas Malory (c. 1405 - March 14th, 1471) was an English writer, who wrote a book based on the legend of King Arthur. It was called Le Morte d'Arthur. In it, he wrote his version of the Code of Chivalry:

To never do outrage nor murder (not to assault or murder anybody)
Always to flee treason (do not commit treason, a crime against your country or king)
To by no means be cruel but to give mercy unto him who asks for mercy (Do not be mean. Grant mercy to those who ask, even in combat.)
To always do ladies, gentlewomen and widows succor ('succor' is an old word for help; this means that the knight must promise to help women if they need it. Note that this does not necessarily include peasantry.)
To never force ladies, gentlewomen or widows (never 'harm' women. Note that this does not necessarily include peasantry.)
Not to take up battles in wrongful quarrels for love or worldly goods (do not even join in fights over anything less than god or country)



List of the Knights of the Round Table

In different stories, there are different numbers of knights, ranging from 12 to more than 150. The Winchester Round Table shows 25 Knights. Most of the people believe that these are the knights of the round table:

King Arthur
SirLancelot
SirGawain
Sir Geraint
Sir Percival
Sir Bors De Ganis
Sir Lamorak
Sir Kay
Sir Gareth
Sir Bedivere
Sir Gaheris
Sir Galahad
Sir Tristan



Other Knights

This is a list of other knights mentioned as being Knights of the Round Table.

Sir Aglovale
Sir Agravaine
King Enion
King Bagdemagus
Sir Breunor
Sir Caradoc
Sir Colgrevance
Sir Constantine
Sir Dagonet, the court jester
Sir Daniel
Sir Ector
Sir Ector de Maris
Sir Elyan the White
Sir Gaheris
Sir Galehaut,
Sir Galeshin
Sir Geraint
Sir Gingalain
King Leodegrance
Sir Leon
Sir Lionel
Sir Maleagant
Sir Meliant de Lis
Sir Morien
Sir Pelleas
Sir Sagramore le Desirous
Sir Safir
Sir Segwarides
Sir Septius
Sir Tor
King Uriens
Sir Ywain the Bastard
Sir Arter



Other characters
This is a list of other main characters in Arthurian Legend that aren't Knights of the Round Table:

Elaine of Corbenic
Lady of the Lake
Merlin
Mordred
Morgan le Fay



Related pages

Round Table



References



Other websites

Timeless Myths page for Knights of the Round Table