City of Las Vegas at night
In 1905, The town of Las Vegas Nevada was established with the opening of the Salt Lake, San Pedro & Los Angeles Railroad. The city's official history began on May 15, 1905, when 110 acres of land adjacent to the Union Pacific Railroad tracks was sold at auction: that area would become the downtown area of Las Vegas.
In 1911, Las Vegas became incorporated as a city with a population of 3000.
In 1931, Nevada both legalized casino gambling and liberalized the state divorce law by reducing residency requirements to six weeks.
In that same year, construction was started on the Boulder Canyon project, now known as Hoover Dam. Along with bringing construction workers and their families to the area, a growing tourism industry was created as visitors came to witness the building of this engineering marvel. This helped the area avoid the economic devastation of the great depression.
These changes greatly impacted downtown's Fremont Street (named after John C. Fremont, who led a westward overland expedition and camped at Las Vegas Springs in 1844). Fremont Street evolved from a dusty whistle stop into a haven for fun-seekers.
In 1941, a gunnery school for the Army Air Corps was established. It is now known as Nellis Air Force Base and is the home of the Air Force acrobatic team, the Thunderbirds. In 1951, the Nevada Proving Grounds, located 65 miles northwest of Las Vegas, began atomic testing in the middle of what was then the Las Vegas Bombing and Gunnery Range, an Air Force training and practice site.
In 1959, the famous "Welcome to Fabulous Las Vegas" sign was created by resident Betty Willis.
It was during the middle of the 20th century that Las Vegas continued its triumphant march toward becoming the gambling capital of the world. During this time, the use of neon emerged, transforming Fremont Street into "Glitter Gulch." Its isolated location and natural assets made Las Vegas particularly attractive to the defense industry during World War II.
Gaining fame in Las Vegas during the post-war era were notorious characters such as "Bugsy" Siegel, who, along with others, purchased a downtown Las Vegas hotel called the El Cortez. He later went on to open the Flamingo Hotel on the Las Vegas Strip. Both hotels are still in existence.
In the 1960s, Las Vegas temporarily became home to eccentric recluse multimillionaire and aircraft mogul Howard Hughes, who helped introduce the business world to the riches gained from investing in Las Vegas. It was corporate America's involvement in the gaming industry along with the increased oversight and enforcement of taxation of the industry's gaming revenues by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that eventually muscled out the mobsters. A visit to the Las Vegas Museum of Law Enforcement and Organized Crime (The Mob Museum) will provide you with hours of fun-filled educational and historical data.
In the late 1980s, entrepreneur Steve Wynn changed the face of the Las Vegas gambling industry by ushering in the era of the mega casino resort. These immense, one-stop hotel and casino complexes, designed to encourage patrons to stay onsite, changed the dynamics of the valley's industry.
In 1995, the face of downtown Las Vegas changed forever when the $70 million Fremont Street Experience opened on December 13th. Over 12.5 million LEDs and 550,000 watts of sound are part of this entertainment extravaganza situated amid a five-block, pedestrian-friendly mall of casinos, shops and entertainment venues.

Las Vegas strip
The Las Vegas Strip is a stretch of Las Vegas Boulevard in Clark County, Nevada, that is known for its concentration of resort hotels and casinos. The Strip, as it is known, is about 4.2 mi (6.8 km) long, and is immediately south of the Las Vegas city limits in the unincorporated towns of Paradise and Winchester, but is often referred to simply as "Las Vegas".
Many of the largest hotel, casino, and resort properties in the world are on the Strip, known for its contemporary architecture, lights, and wide variety of attractions. Its hotels, casinos, restaurants, residential high-rises, entertainment offerings, and skyline have established the Strip as one of the most popular and iconic tourist destinations in the world and is one of the driving forces for Las Vegas's economy. Most of the Strip has been designated as an All-American Road, and the North and South Las Vegas Strip routes are classified as Nevada Scenic Byways and National Scenic Byways.

Caesars Palace
Caesars Palace in 2016
Caesars Palace is a luxury hotel and casino in Paradise, Nevada, United States. The hotel is situated on the west side of the Las Vegas Strip between Bellagio and The Mirage. It is one of Las Vegas's largest and best known landmarks. Caesars Palace was opened in 1966 by Jay Sarno and Stanley Mallin, who sought to create an opulent facility that gave guests a sense of life during the Roman Empire. It contains many statues, columns and iconography typical of Hollywood Roman period productions including a 20-foot (6.1 m) statue of Augustus Caesar near the entrance. Caesars Palace is now owned by Vici Properties and operated by Caesars Entertainment. As of July 2016, the hotel has 3,960 rooms and suites in six towers and a convention facility of over 300,000 square feet (28,000 m2).

Sports in Las Vegas


Major professional teams



History
Las Vegas was one of the largest cities in the United States without a major league sports team prior to the entry of the Golden Knights into the NHL. Due in part to perceived risks with legal sports betting, no major professional sports league had ever had a team in Las Vegas until the NHL announced its intent to launch an expansion team in the city in June 2016. The placement of a major league team in Las Vegas was an ongoing topic of discussion between city leaders and the professional sports leagues.