Ancient sculpture of Apollo now in the British Museum
This is a list of the gods and goddesses of Greek mythology. Roman Mythology uses different names, calling Zeus by the name of Jupiter, and Aphrodite by the name of Venus, for example. The Roman names are often better known to English-speaking people than the Greek names.

The Twelve Olympians
These gods are the most important and powerful gods. The home of these gods was Mount Olympus, except for Hades who is only allowed on Olympus once a year. Hades lives in the Underworld the rest of the time.





Primordial (first) gods




Titans
See also Titan (mythology).
The original twelve Titans:

Koios - also spelled Coeus. God of intelligence, heavenly prophecy and the axis.
Krios - also spelled Crius. God of leadership, domesticated animals and the constellations.
Kronos - also spelled Cronus. God of time. King of the Titans. Roman name Saturn.
Hyperion - God of light.
Iapetos - God of mortal lifespan.
Mnemosyne - Goddess of memory, the inventiveness of words and language.
Oceanus - God of salt water.
Phoebe - Goddess of the Oracle of Delphi and intellect.
Rhea - Goddess of fertility, the female body, and later, nature. Mother of Zeus, Hera, Hestia, Hades, Poseidon and Demeter.
Tethys - Goddess of Subterranean forces of fresh water and patron goddess of nursing mothers and the young.
Theia - Goddess of sight, gold, silver, and gems.
Themis - Goddess of divine law and order.


Other Titans:

Atlas - God of astronomy. Holds the sky from the earth as his punishment.
Epimetheus - God of afterthought and excuses.
Menoitios - God of violent anger, rash reactions and human morality.
Prometheus - God of forethought and crafty counsel. Gave humanity the gift of Fire.
Asteria - mother of Hecate
Perses - father of Hecate
Asterious - father of the Anemoi
Dione - goddess of the oracle Dodonna



Minor Gods and Goddesses

Eos - goddess of dawn and sister of Selene and Helios
Helios - god of the sun and brother of Selene and Eos
Selene - goddess of the moon and sister of Helios and Eos
Ariadne - goddess of passion and mazes (was a mortal princess engaged to Theseus, but was abandoned. Married the god Dionysus and was made immortal.)
Aeolus - god of winds (mortal at birth, but became immortal)
Asclepius - god of medicine and Drugs .
Bia - goddess of violence
Cratos - god of strength and power.
Deimos - personification of terror; brother of Phobos.
Eris - goddess of strife and discord.
Eros - god of love
Psyche - goddess of compassion
Geras - god of old age.
Ganymede cupbearer of the Olympians (Not a god)
Harmonia - goddess of harmony.
Hebe - goddess of youth.
Hecate - goddess of magic, witchcraft, necromancy and crossroads.
Hypnos - god of sleep.
Janus - god of doors, gates and choices (although Janus is a Roman god and does not have a Greek counterpart)
Khione - goddess of snow (her father is Boreas, the god of the north wind cold)
Leto - mother of Artemis and Apollo.
Metis - mother of Athena, titan of thought
Enyo - goddesses of war and peacekeeping
Eileithyia - goddesses of childbirth
Momus- god of blame.
Moros - god of Doom.
Nemesis - goddess of balance, consequences and revenge.
Nike - goddess of victory
Persephone - goddess of spring and flowers and wife of Hades, hence queen of the Underworld.
Phobos - god of phobias and fear in general; brother of Deimos.
Thanatos- god of peaceful death.
The Erinyes - otherwise known as The Furies. Goddesses of revenge, commanded by Hades.
The Horae - actually two groups of separate goddesses worshipped in different periods: the first three were goddesses of the seasons, the second generation were goddesses of law, justice and order.
Tyche - goddess of luck, destiny and fortune.
Zelus - god of dedication.
The Moirae: Klotho, Lachesis and Atropos - controllers of life and destiny.
The Muses - representatives of the arts, sciences and songs.
The Oneiroi: Morpheus, Phobetor and Phantasos - personifications of dreams and sons of Hypnos.
Pan - god of the Wild.
Iris (goddess) - goddess of the rainbow and a messenger for the gods
Triton - god of ships, prince of Atlantis
Paean - doctor of the gods.
The Keres- goddesses of violent Death.
The Charites - goddesses of charm, beauty, human creativity, and fertility.
Pallas - god of warfare
Melinoe - goddess of ghosts.
Morpheus- god of dreams, Works for the Titans.



References



Other pages

List of people in Greek mythology










fr:Dieux de l'Olympe
(*) "Chaos". {{{2}}}. 2002. http://www.credoreference.com/entry/routwwcm/chaos. Retrieved 16 June 2011.
(*) "Primeval Gods of Greek Mythology". {{{2}}}. 2011 [last update]. http://www.theoi.com/greek-mythology/primeval-gods.html. Retrieved 16 June 2011.