Luigi's Mansion 3 logo
Luigi’s Mansion 3 is a sequel to Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon from the Nintendo 3DS and was developed by Next Level Games and published by Nintendo.

Plot
Luigi and his friends goes to a hotel named the Last Resort. They see it at first as a very good and golden hotel but when they go to sleep. Something Big happens. Luigi sees the King Boo has Trapped his friends in paintings. Luigi Must rescue them from the bosses he encounters. He has to be careful of ghosts on his way.

Characters

Luigi
As the Main character of the game. Luigi wears a green cap with an L on it. He also wears a green vest. He is the one who sucks ghosts in the game.

Mario
As Luigi’s older brother and shorter brother. Mario wears a red cap with an M on it. He got trapped by King boo in a painting.

Toads
They are a red toad, a blue toad, and a yellow toad. They have been stuck on different floors of the hotel. One of them looked for the part in B2.

Princess Peach
As the princess of the mushroom kingdom. She wears a pink dress. And she has a crown. She has been trapped with king boo too.

Floors of the Hotel

B2
B2 or the boiler works has a big sewer and controls the water in hotel. It’s boss is Clem. Which is a fixer.

B1
Just the garage and the laundry machines. Steward relays here and fought here. Dr e gadd lab relays here too.

1f
The floor you enter from in the hotel. This is the place where you check in. This floor has no boss.

2F
The mezzanine is mostly a restaurant area with a lot of food too. There is also a entertainment room. The boss is actually a chef. The people inside are ghosts.

3F
Hotel Shops. The shopping center of this hotel. Googi is required to go through most doors. A security guard is your boss

4F
The grand stage. A auditorium relies here. People come to sit down and watch the music. The boss is a pianist.A toad is trapped here.

5F
RIP suites. This is where the gang’s rooms are and packed there. The boss stole e gadd. It’s boss is a maid named chambrea.

6F
Castle MacFrights. This is the knights and dragons floor. With many confusing rooms to go through. You end up with battling with a knight. Cardboard ghosts cheer for the knight not Luigi.

7F
Garden Suites. Their Suites is full of grass and plants. The names of the rooms have to do with plants. An entire plant is growing in the atrium. It’s boss is dr potter.

8F
Paranormal Productions. This is the lights,cameras,action floor. It has 5 floors to record. It’s director morty is actually nice. Your boss is a Godzilla like dragon which is really a goob in disguise.

9F
Unnatural History Museum. This small museum has dinosaurs. Such as a T-Rex which is your boss actually.A toad is trapped here.

10F
Tomb Suites. Despite being called “suites”. It’s really like Egypt pyramids. With traps and sand everywhere. It’s boss is a female pharaoh.

11F
Twisted Suites. Everything is mixed up here. One room upside down. At the end the map is mixed up. This is caused by 3 female magicians which is actually your boss.

12F
The Spectral Catch. This water area is a pirate home. The pirate ship is on the sea. It’s boss is a shark named captain fishhook. A toad is trapped here.

13F
Fitness center. People and ghosts do fitness here for exercise. Some ghosts are actually doing some. Your boss is a swimmer.

14F
The Dance Hall. People and ghosts dance here for fun. It has lots of lights and neon signs. Your boss is a DJ.

15F
I haven’t seen this floor yet.

Controls


A button: Strobulb
X button: Dark Light
ZR button: Suck
ZL:Blow
ZR and ZL button: Burst
+ button: Menu
L Stick: Move
R Stick: Camera



Ghosts

Ghosts are the enemies of the game. They try to suck Luigi hearts away by attacking. Ghosts are killed by Luigi sucking them. Sometimes he can’t do as easy as that such as when the ghost has thing on it. It may require a burst. Boss ghosts need certain actions then be sucked. King boo is the boss of ghosts. The amount of hearts a ghost has is above its head. Mini ghosts can be defeat in 1 suck.

ScareScraper
ScareScraper is a game in Luigi’s Mansion 3. The goal is usually catching ghosts or rescuing toads. This mode is multiplayer and single player and can also be played online.There is a time limit to catch these things and well a lot of traps.