Madikwe river in Mmathubudukwane
Madikwe river is one of the biggest rivers in Kgatleng east, Botswana. It is a seasonal river, a flourishing natural resource which has brought life to the communities along the river. The river is runs along the villages popularly known as Dinokeng villages which are Sikwane, Mmathudukukwane, Ramonaka and Malolwane. Madikwe river starts from Sikwane and flows along the villages mentioned above until it pours into Limpopo River in Oliphant drift.

Importance


Domestic use
Madikwe river played an important role in their lives. They used water from the river for different purposes such as farming and drinking by livestock. A problem they faced was that the river would get dry sometimes. (*)  People in the villages along the river experienced a challenging time when the Madikwe river dried for a long time, as a result the villagers decided to dig boreholes in the river to get water to be used for household activities such as bathing, cooking and drinking.

Cultural and spiritual significance
The water from Madikwe river  have cultural and spiritual impact for religions like ATR ( African Traditional Religion ) and Christianity. They use it as a sacred place to connect with their Supreme Beings and to perform rituals. It is the most precious natural resource in our area because farming and fishing takes place near the river. The river has a large number of animals living in it such as fish, crabs, hippopotamus, snakes and crocodile and this can attract tourist who can help in the conservation of the river and development of villages along the river.

Business benefits
Vegetable farm along the Madikwe river
Some of the people who live besides the river make a living by fishing for family consumption and others for business . The fishing is however restricted and controlled by the Department of Wildlife and National Parks, Fishing Division. Only those with government issued fishing licenses are allowed to do fishing for business while those that are doing it for consumption are allowed to do fishing without permits. There are also horticultural farmers along the river who grow vegetables such as cabbage, spinach, beetroot, carrot. This has resulted in the growth and booming of the local horticulture business. It has resulted in the creation of jobs for the locals and also provides young people an opportunity to grow vegetables for sale.

Disadvantages
This river is however not without disadvantages. There has unfortunately been drowning incidents. A number of people especially school going children have lost their lives while swimming in the river without adults supervision. Also in the recent years, the number of animals such as crocodiles and hippopotamus has been increasing and this made it very unsafe for both livestock and people who live along the river to freely use it. The other danger is that during the rainy season the river can overflow and water from the river often ends up flooding nearby homes. Another danger from the river is that during heavy rains, crocodiles and hippopotamus dominate the area. A few livestock were reported to have been killed by these dangerous animals.

Looking ahead, the Madikwe river will continue to face numerous challenges, but it also holds the potential to be a symbol of resilience and adaptation. As climate change brings more extreme weather events, finding ways to adapt to the changing weather conditions will be very important. The river is important for agricultural activities, biodiversity and other recreational activities. Teaching the community to conserve the river can ensure that the Madikwe river remains an important natural resource to the people of Dinokeng villages and  can continue to sustain life in this semi-arid region, providing water and nourishment to both people and animals for years to come.

(*) Pilane, A. B. (2025). Headman records of Madibana ward, Mmathubudukwane. Unpublished community record, Mmathubudukwane, Botswana.