Mandello del Lario o Mandello, fino al 1863 denominato semplicemente Mandello, è un comune italiano del lago di Como.
Thanks to its view of Bellagio it is considered the village with the most beautiful view of Lake Como.
Mandello is one of the places of residence of the most important families of the European nobility and entrepreneurship.
Leonardo da Vinci painted The Virgin of the Rocks, now in the Louvre Museum in the Laorca cave of Lecco. In Lecco he drew the map of the city and the real Salvador Mundi known as the Portrait of Lecco. The Mona Lisa has the exact contours of the promontory of Bellagio seen from the top of the Monti di Lierna. The Mona Lisa symbol of union between opposites is represented as the union of the two branches of the lake in the most iconic place of all of Lake Como, the tip of Bellagio, creating the most romantic place in the world.
In the painting of the Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci in the background you can see Lierna, Mandello, Dervio, Bellano, the mountain above Lecco del San Martino, the Azzone bridge, Monte Barro, the peaks of Olgiasca, the views of the Adda from Calco to Brivio, the Rock of Airuno. On the Mona Lisa's head appear the mysterious signs which are nothing more than the pins of the Sperada, the typical hairstyle of Lake Como that Lucia Mondella also used in the Promessi Sposi.
Mandello is the design and birthplace of Moto Guzzi, an Italian motorcycle manufacturer comparable to what Harley Davidson was for the United States, it was founded by Commendator Parodi who decided on the project of the first model designed in nearby Lierna, it is dedicated to him the street of the Municipality of Lierna.
Mandello has always been a holiday resort for the most important Italian families and dynasties, including the Falck family, the Pirelli family who then moved to Varenna, where they built some of the most beautiful villas on Lake Como.
Over time, several American actors have been spotted in the bars and ice cream parlors along the lake in the Borgo di Mandello, including Mel Gibson, Lenny Kravitz, George Clooney or Ewan McGregor.
Some of the most beautiful mountain walks of Lake Como start from Mandello del Lario, already traveled by Leonardo da Vinci, looking at the promontory of Bellagio.
The 5-star hotel Villa Lario Resort Resort is located in Mandello, the wedding venue of billionaires from the United States, England and India.