The game is based off the original 2014 Mario Kart 8 on the Wii U platform. But after initially being teased alongside the Nintendo Switch's announcement in October 2016, Mario Kart 8 Deluxe was formally revealed at the Nintendo Switch Presentation on January 12, 2017. The trailer showcased mechanics such as Smart Steering and crossover elements from the Splatoon series—additional crossovers with The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild were added in an update post-launch. The release date was set for April 28, 2017, only a month after the Switch's March 3 launch. Nintendo also announced a steering wheel accessory for the Switch Joy-Con controller to allow for motion-controlled steering. An overview trailer revealed details about the game's battle mode including several battle mode-exclusive courses, as well as the return of the Shine Thief mode from Mario Kart: Double Dash. After the release of the trailer, several internet memes circulated surrounding Donkey Kong appearing to perform a celebratory dab. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe revamps the battle mode, adds a second item slot, among other minor gameplay improvements.
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe (2017)
Shortly after launch, Nintendo released a software update that changed one of the victory gestures done by the Inkling Girl. Prior to the update, the Inkling Girl performed a gesture that consisted of placing her hand on a flexed bicep and pumping her fist into the air. After the update, the Inkling Girl no longer clenches her fist around her flexed arm, instead simply performing a "fist pump", though the rest of the gesture was unchanged.
A series of updates in 2018 added compatibility with Nintendo Labo, a toys-to-life kit that uses cardboard to create motion-controlled toys with Joy-Con controllers. The first update enabled the Toy-Con Motorbike as a controller for Mario Kart 8 Deluxe, allowing the player to use the physical throttle, handlebars, and gyroscope present on the Toy-Con Motorbike, while actions like braking, drifting, and item pickups are still performed using the standard controller buttons. A later update added compatibility for the Toy-Con Car, Pedal, and Key to control actions like braking, drifting, and using the horn on the steering wheel to launch items.
An update released on December 7, 2022, added an item customization option for certain modes, allowing players to choose which items are obtainable in a race or Battle.

Booster Course Pass
During a February 2022 Nintendo Direct, it was announced that Mario Kart 8 Deluxe would get a paid downloadable content season pass called the "Booster Course Pass". Courses in the "Booster Course Pass" are largely remastered from their incarnations in previous Mario Kart games. The "Booster Course Pass" was released in six waves, with each wave containing eight courses split into two cups, totaling to 48 additional tracks that were released between March 2022 and November 2023. It can be accessed by purchasing it on the Nintendo Switch's eShop, or by having an active Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack subscription. The first wave of the "Booster Course Pass" was released on March 18, 2022, containing the Golden Dash Cup and the Lucky Cat Cup. Wave 2 was released on August 4, 2022, containing the Turnip Cup and the Propeller Cup. It also featured Sky-High Sundae, an original course not introduced in a previous Mario Kart game. Alongside the release of Wave 2, Nintendo released an update to the Wave 1 course Coconut Mall that changed the cars at the end of the course to perform donuts, rather than remaining stationary, except for in Time Trials. This change was widely praised, especially after many were disappointed that the cars were stationary in the "Booster Course Pass" to begin with. Wave 3 was released on December 7, 2022, containing the Rock Cup and the Moon Cup. The ability to remove certain items from "VS Race" mode and online races was also added. Wave 4 was released on March 8, 2023, in North America and March 9 elsewhere, containing the Fruit Cup and the Boomerang Cup. It also featured a brand new original course based on Yoshi's Island (1995). Wave 5 was released on July 12, 2023, containing the Feather Cup and the Cherry Cup. It also featured a brand new course, Squeaky Clean Sprint. The final wave, Wave 6 was shown off in a Nintendo Direct on September 14, 2023, and released on November 9, 2023, containing the Acorn Cup and the Spiny Cup. Wave 6 features the addition of a music player featuring music from all courses in the game, as well as 18 additional costumes for the Mii racers.
Starting in February 2023, Nintendo added eight more playable characters to the game, all having previously appeared in other Mario Kart titles. The first of these characters, Birdo, debuted in Wave 4; Petey Piranha, Wiggler, and Kamek in Wave 5; and Diddy Kong, Funky Kong, Pauline and Peachette in Wave 6.
See also

Mario Kart Wii
Wikipedia
Fandom
Super Mario Brothers
Luigi's Mansion 3