Narsingdi District locator map
Narsingdi District (Bengali: নরসিংদী জেলা) is a district in central Bangladesh. It is located 50 km north-east of Dhaka, capital city of Bangladesh. It is a part of the Dhaka Division. The district is famous for its textile craft industry. Narsingdi is bordered by Kishoreganj in the north and north-east, Brahmanbaria in the east and south-east, Comilla in the south and south-east, Narayanganj in the south and south-west and Gazipur in the west.

Subdivisions
There are six upazilas, or subdivisions, in the Narsingdi district.

Belabo Upazila
Monohardi Upazila
Narsingdi Sadar Upazila
Palash Upazila
Raipura Upazila
Shibpur Upazila



History
The region was formerly ruled by a king named Narsingh. It is believed that king Narsingh established a small town called Narsinghpur on the west bank of the ancient Brahmaputra river in the early fifteenth century. Historians believe that the name Narsingdi originated from the name of King Narsingh. At one time the Narsingdi region belonged to Maheshwardi Pargana. Dewan Isha Kha was the zamindar of this pargana. Then the zamindars were Dewan Sharif Kha and Ayesha Akhter Khatun. After the abolition of zamindari system, Narsingdi was once an administrative thana of Narayanganj subdivision under Dhaka district. It was upgraded to a subdivision of Dhaka district in 1986. In 1984.

Population data
Population = 17,95,984 (according to the 2011 census).
Population per km2 = 1800 people

Communication system
Narsingdi district can be connected to the rest of the country by road and river.

Railway stations - 07 (Ghorashal, Jinardi, Amirganj, Khanabari, Hatubhanga, Methikanda, Srinidhi and Daulatkandi) .
Navigation - Narsingdi Launch Terminal, Panthshala Ferry Ghat, Raipura, Sayedabad Ferry Ghat .
Road - From Panchdona, Velanagar, Itakhola, Baraicha, Narayanpur bus stand to all the districts of the country.



Economy
Narsingdi has been prosperous in economy since ancient times. The main tool of the weaving industry. Narsingdi, (Madhabadi) is the main center for textile production. The first business of the people of Madhabadi area is to produce cloth. Any kind of fabric is produced here. There are plenty of textile mills in this area. And (Baburhat) is the largest wholesale cloth market in Bangladesh. People from all over Bangladesh buy wholesale clothes from here. And exports to other countries.

Agriculture
Narsingdi district plays an important role in the overall agricultural system of Bangladesh. Various agricultural products produced in the district are supplied all over the country to meet the local demand. The most famous agricultural product or fruit of Narsingdi district is banana. Narsingdi district is also the largest producer of Latkan in Bangladesh. About two-thirds of the people here are farmers.

Main crops: Paddy, wheat, potato, mustard, groundnut, eggplant, various vegetables.
Missing or almost extinct crops: Mosina, Kaun, Aus and Aman Paddy, Jute and Arhar pulses.
Main fruits: Banana, Jackfruit, Mango, Blackberry, Papaya, Guava, Cool, Latkan and Watermelon.



Medical system
(Info need)

Narsingdi Sadar Hospital (02-9482008)
Narsingdi District Hospital (02-9483517)
Lions Eye Hospital
Diabetic Hospital (02-9483539)
College Homoeo Hall, Narsingdi. (01712-695156)



The well-known educational institutions


Education Notable madrasas in Narsingdi district


Attractive places


Rivers
The Meghna, the Shitalakshya, the old Brahmaputra, Arial Kha, Haridhoa, and Paharea are some of the main rivers that flow through this district.

Gallery
<gallery>
Landscape of Narsingdi District (01).jpg
Landscape of Narsingdi District (02).jpg
Landscape of Narsingdi District (06).jpg
Landscape of Narsingdi District (08).jpg
Under construction bridge at Narsingdi District (01).jpg
</gallery>

Fire Service and Civil Defense
The fire service and civil defense stations of Narsingdi district are:

Deputy Assistant Director - (Mobile 01730-002153)
Narsingdi Fire Station - (Mobile: 01730-002156)
Manohardi Fire Station - (Mobile: 01730-002175)
Palash Fire Station - (Mobile: 01730-00217)
Madhabadi Fire Station - (Mobile: 01726-7)
Raipura Fire Station - (Mobile: 017-62699)
Belab Fire Station - (Mobile: 01724 460294)
Shibpur Fire Station - (Mobile: 0179-303708)



Notable personalities

Lt. Colonel Abh Nazrul Islam Hiru, Bir Pratik, former Minister of State for Water Resources, Government of Bangladesh and current President of Narsingdi District Awami League.
Rajiuddin Ahmed Raju, Member of Parliament Narsingdi-5, Former Minister of Posts and Telecommunications
Nurul Majid Humayun Mahmud, Minister of Industries, Government of Bangladesh
Bir Shrestha Flight Lieutenant Matiur Rahman
Poet Shamsur Rahman
Dr. Alauddin Al Azad - Literary
Brother Girish Chandra Sen - Translator.
Satish Chandra Pakrashi (December 1793-30, 1973) was a Bengali freedom fighter and armed revolutionary.
Mia Md. Sundar Ali Gandhi - Social Reformer One of the Founders of Undivided Bengal Krishak-Praja Party
Musleh Uddin Bhuiyan, First Member of Parliament, Narsingdi Sadar.
Apple Mahmoud
Former Army Chief Md. Nuruddin Khan.
Prof. Dr. Rashid Uddin Ahmed - One of the neurosurgeons of the subcontinent and the first neurosurgeon of Bangladesh. [Citation needed] Belab village of Narsingdi, Amdia Union. He died on March 19, 2016.
Principal Abdul Hamid M.Sc. (who was the first among the Bengali Muslims in British India to get first class from Dhaka University in 1936. And he established a school and college at Ajpara Gai.
Subhas Saha - Independent Bengali football team player
Shamim Kabir - the first captain of the Bangladesh national cricket team;
Kabiyal Haricharan Acharya- awarded the title of Poet Gunakar;
Shaheed Asad - the hero of the mass uprising of 1969.
Dr. MA Hannan-College Homoeo Hall, Narsingdi.
Poet Jobayer Ahmad (Alam), awarded as a pen soldier, is an international award-winning fearless man whose pen is uncompromising in revealing the truth.




References