Logo of the National Association of Mathematics Students
The National Association of Mathematics Students is an association that represents mathematics students in Spain.
In addition, it is responsible for organizing mathematics dissemination activities, creating a link between mathematics students in Spain, and promoting the role of mathematicians in the world of work.
Annually, it organizes the National Meeting of Mathematics Students.
The organizational structure of the Association is established in a Presidency, a Vice-Presidency, a Secretariat and a Treasury within the Board of Directors, and a set of members who preside over working groups with specific functions. These positions have a duration of one year, with the possibility of running again or applying for another position during the General Assembly of the National Association of Mathematics Students that is held in July.
During the General Assembly of the National Association of Mathematics Students, a Board of Directors is elected, in charge of directing and representing the students of the Association in other associations of interest, and supervising and supporting ideas that are the responsibility of the Association.
The President is, since July 2023, Marina Díaz, the Vice President is Laura Pons, the Secretary is Marina Polo and the Treasurer is Andrea Díaz.
Like the Board of Directors, the Extended Board of Directors is elected at the General Assembly. The Expanded Board of Directors is made up of the Board of Directors and an undetermined number of members who chair Working Groups with specific functions.

History
It was at the third National Meeting of Mathematics Students in 2002 where the idea of ​​creating the Association arose. (*)
The 2011 National Meeting of Mathematics Students was part of the Centenary of the Royal Spanish Mathematical Society. (*)
Since 2017, the Association annually publishes the magazine TEMat, which disseminates mathematics works. (*)
Around International Mathematics Day 2017, the Association organized the Pi Day Contest for the first time. (*)
In 2018, she became one of the signatories of the Manifesto of the Mathematical Dissemination network for the recognition of the dissemination of mathematics, promoted by the Mathematical Dissemination Network. (*)
In 2019, it became one of the driving institutions of the Aragón Mathematics Museum. (*)
Since 2023, she has been the organizer of the Mathematical League. (*)  On July 6, 2024, the League was presented at the World Federation of National Mathematics Competitions mini conference.
On February 4, 2024, it was announced that the National Association of Mathematics Students would support the 2024 European Mathematics Congress. (*)

References

es:Asociación Nacional de Estudiantes de Matemáticas
ca:Associació Nacional d'Estudiants de Matemàtiques
(*) Ojeda López, José, et al. «Encuentro Nacional de Estudiantes de Matemáticas (ENEM): una cita imprescindible». Boletín de la Titulación de Matemáticas de la UAL, vol. 9, n.o 2, 2015, pp. 20-21. dialnet.unirioja.es.
(*) «Encuentro Nacional de Estudiantes de Matemáticas y el Centenario». Real Sociedad Matemática Española, 19 de julio de 2011.
(*) Dengra, Noemí. «Nace TEMat, la primera revista electrónica de divulgación de trabajos de estudiantes de matemáticas». Centro de Formación Interdisciplinaria Superior, 2 de febrero de 2017.
(*) Bustamante, Marta. «Raíz cúbica de 512, en cinco segundos». Cadena SER, 14 de marzo de 2018. "Convocado a nivel nacional por la Asociación Nacional de Estudiantes de Matemáticas por segundo año consecutivo"
(*) «Manifiesto por el reconocimiento de la divulgación de las matemáticas». Diario ABC, 4 de junio de 2018.
(*) Aragón, Heraldo de. «El primer museo de las Matemáticas de Aragón se abrirá en el monasterio de Casbas». Heraldo de Aragón. 4 de junio de 2019. Accedido 4 de enero de 2024. "Las instituciones impulsoras del Museo Matemático son […] la Asociación Nacional de Estudiantes de Matemáticas…"
(*) Atanes Santos, Nicolás. «La Liga Matemática de la ANEM». Boletín de la Titulación de Matemáticas de la UAL, vol. 17, n.o 1, 2023, pp. 25-26. dialnet.unirioja.es.
(*) Press, Europa. «La Junta apoyará el noveno Congreso Europeo de Matemáticas que se celebrará en Sevilla con 1.900 participantes». 4 de febrero de 2024. "La Consejería de Universidad, Investigación e Innovación aportará 35.000 euros para el desarrollo de este congreso, contará también con el respaldo de otras instituciones como […] la Asociación Nacional de Estudiantes de Matemáticas"