(NFL) logo
The National Football League (NFL) is the largest and most prestigious professional American football league, consisting of thirty-two teams from United States cities and regions. The league's teams are divided into two conferences: The American Football Conference (AFC) and the National Football Conference (NFC). Each conference is then further divided into four divisions consisting of four teams each, labeled North, South, East, and West. During the league's regular season, each team plays sixteen games over a seventeen-week period, generally from September to December. At the end of each regular season, six teams from each conference play in the NFL playoffs, a twelve-team single-elimination tournament that culminates with the NFL championship, the Super Bowl. This game is held at a pre-selected site which is usually a city that hosts an NFL team. One week later, selected all-star players from both the AFC and NFC meet in the Pro Bowl, currently held in Honolulu, Hawaii. The Super Bowl is the most watched event in America every year and Super Bowl weekend has become an almost unofficial national holiday.

Media


Television
The television rights to the NFL are the most lucrative and expensive rights not only of any American sport, but of any American entertainment property. With the fragmentation of audiences due to the increased specialization of broadcast and cable TV networks, sports remain one of the few entertainment properties that not only can guarantee a large and diversified audience, but an audience that will watch in real time.
Annually, the Super Bowl often ranks among the most watched shows of the year.
Under the current television contracts, which began during the 2006 season, regular season games are broadcast on five networks: CBS, Fox Broadcasting Company, NBC, ESPN, and the NFL Network. Regionally shown games are broadcast on Sundays on CBS and FOX, carrying the AFC and NFC teams respectively (the traveling team deciding the broadcast station in the event of inter-Conference games). These games generally air at 1:00 p.m. ET and 4:00 p.m. or 4:15 p.m. ET. Nationally televised games include NBC Sunday Night Football, ESPN Monday Night Football, the Thursday night NFL Kickoff Game, the annual Dallas Cowboys and Detroit Lions Thanksgiving Day games, and, as of 2006, select Thursday and Saturday games on the NFL network, a wholly owned subsidiary of the National Football League.
Additionally, satellite broadcast company DirecTV offers NFL Sunday Ticket, a subscription based package, that allows most Sunday daytime regional games to be watched. This package is exclusive to DirecTV in the U.S. In Canada, NFL Sunday Ticket is available on a per-provider distribution deal on both cable and satellite.

Radio
Each NFL team has its own radio network and employs its announcers. Nationally, the NFL is heard on the Westwood One Radio Network, Sports USA Radio Network and in Spanish on Univision Radio and the United Stations Radio Network. Westwood One carries Sunday and Monday Night Football, all Thursday games, two Sunday afternoon contests and all post-season games, including the Pro Bowl. Sports USA Radio broadcasts two Sunday afternoon games every Sunday during the regular season.
The NFL also has a contract with Sirius Satellite Radio, which provides news, analysis, commentary and game coverage for all games, as well as comprehensive coverage of the draft and off-season on its own channel, Sirius NFL Radio.
Internet radio broadcasts of all NFL games are managed through FieldPass, a subscription service. Radio stations are, by rule, prohibited from streaming the games for free from their Web sites; however, there are numerous stations that break this rule. The NFL on Westwood One and the NFL on Sports USA Radio are not available on FieldPass.

The NFL Draft
Every year during April, each NFL franchise seeks to add new players to its roster through a collegiate draft known as the "NFL Annual Player Selection Meeting," which is more commonly known as the NFL Draft.
Teams are ranked in inverse order based on the previous season's record, with the worst record picking first, and the second worst picking second and so on. The two exceptions to this order are made for teams that appeared in the previous Super Bowl; the Super Bowl champion always picks 32nd, and the Super Bowl loser always picks 31st.
The draft proceeds for 7 rounds. Rounds 1–3 are run on Saturday of draft weekend, rounds 4–7 are run on Sunday. Teams are given a limited amount of time to make their picks. If the pick is not made in the allotted time, subsequent teams in the draft may draft before them.
Teams have the option of trading away their picks to other teams for different picks, players, cash, or a combination thereof. While player-for-player trades are rare during the rest of the year (especially in comparison to the other major league sports), trades are far more common on draft day.
The first pick in the draft is often taken to be the best overall player in the rookie class. This may or may not be true, since teams sometimes select players based more on needs, or signability than on overall skill. Still, it is considered a great honor to be a first-round pick, and a greater honor to be the first overall pick. The very last pick in the draft is known as Mr. Irrelevant, and is the subject of a dinner in his honor in Newport Beach, California.
Drafted players may only negotiate with the team that drafted them (or to another team if their rights were traded away). The drafting team has one year to sign the player. If they do not do so, the player may reenter the draft and can be drafted by another team.

Steroid policy
The NFL steroid policy has been acclaimed by some and criticized by others, but the policy is the longest running in professional sports, beginning in 1987. The current steroid policy of the NFL suspends players without pay who test positive for banned substances as it has since 1989: Four games for the first offense (a fourth of the regular season), eight games for a second offense (half of the regular season), and 12 months for a third offense. The suspended games may be either regular season games or playoff games.
In comparison to the steroid policies of Major League Baseball and the National Hockey League, the NFL has long been the most strict. While recently MLB and the NHL decided to permanently ban athletes for a third offense, they have long been resistant to such measures, and random testing is in its infancy.
Since the NFL started random, year-round tests and suspending players for performance enhancing drugs it has caught many more players using drugs. By April 2005, 111 NFL players had tested positive for performance enhancing drugs, and of those 111, the NFL suspended 54. Only two NFL players have ever tested positive more than once, and they both retired.

Teams


Current NFL teams
There are 32 NFL teams. Each club is allowed a maximum of 55 players, though nearly every team keeps only 53 on their final roster in case of injury, during the regular season. Unlike Major League Baseball, Major League Soccer, the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League, the league has no teams in Canada largely because of the historical existence of the Canadian Football League.
Most major metropolitan areas in the United States have an NFL franchise; the notable exception is the Los Angeles area, from which both the Raiders and Rams relocated following the 1994 season. The NFL is able to utilize the possible relocation of a franchise to Los Angeles as leverage, for example when trying to persuade local governments to contribute to the cost of new stadiums for its other franchises.
Since the 2002 season, the teams have been aligned as follows:

American Football Conference



1 Original American Football League (AFL) franchise
2 Original American Football League, as the Boston Patriots
3 Original American Football League, as the New York Titans
4 Original American Football League, as the Houston Oilers
5 Original American Football League, as the Kansas City Chiefs|Dallas Texans
6 Original American Football League, as the Los Angeles Chargers
7 American Football League expansion franchise (1966)
8 American Football League expansion franchise (1968)



National Football Conference



Video games
Electronic Arts publishes an NFL video game for current video game consoles and for PCs each year, called Madden NFL, being named after former coach and current football commentator John Madden, who commentates the game along with Al Michaels. Prior to the 2005–2006 football season, other NFL games were produced by competing video game publishers, such as 2K Games and Midway Games. However, in December 2004, Electronic Arts signed a five-year exclusive agreement with the NFL, meaning only Electronic Arts will be permitted to publish games featuring NFL team and player names. This prompted video game developer Midway Games to release a game in 2005 called Blitz: The League, with fictitious teams such as the "Washington Redhawks," and make references to NFL players such as the Washington Redhawks' left-handed QB "Ron Mexico," alluding to Michael Vick of the Atlanta Falcons, who allegedly used the alias at a walk-in clinic. In August 2006, Madden 07 was released with Seattle running back Shaun Alexander on the cover. In August 2007, Madden NFL 08 will be released with Vince Young on the cover.

Uniform numbers
In the NFL, players wear uniform numbers based on the position they play. The current system was instituted into the league on April 5, 1973, as a means for fans and officials (referees, linesmen) to more easily identify players on the field by their position. Players who were already in the league at that date were grandfathered, and did not have to change their uniform numbers if they did not conform. Since that date, players are invariably assigned numbers within the following ranges, based on their primary position:

Quarterbacks, placekickers and punters: 1–19
Wide receivers: 10–19, 80–89
Running backs and defensive backs: 20–49
Offensive linemen: 50–79
Linebackers: 50–59 and 90–99
Defensive linemen: 50–79 and 90–99
Tight ends: 80–89, or 40–49 if all are taken


Prior to 2004, wide receivers were allowed to only wear numbers 80–89. The NFL changed the rule that year to allow wide receivers to wear numbers 10–19 to allow for the increased number of players at wide receiver and tight ends coming into the league. Prior to that, players were only allowed to wear non-standard numbers if their team had run out of numbers within the prescribed number range. Perhaps most familiar to fans, Keyshawn Johnson began wearing number 19 in 1996 because the New York Jets had run out of numbers in the 80s.
Occasionally, players will petition the NFL to allow them to wear a number that is not in line with the numbering system. Brad Van Pelt, a linebacker who entered the NFL in the 1973 NFL season with the New York Giants, wore number 10 during his 11 seasons with the club, despite not being covered by the grandfather clause. In 2006, New Orleans Saints running back Reggie Bush petitioned to the NFL to let him keep the number 5 which he used at University of Southern California. His request was later denied. Former Seattle Seahawks standout Brian Bosworth attempted such a petition in 1987 (to wear his collegiate number of 44 at the linebacker position), also without success.
It should be noted that this NFL numbering system is based on a player's primary position. Any player wearing any number may play at any position on the field at any time (though players wearing numbers 50–79 must let the referee know that they are playing out of position by reporting as an "ineligible number in an eligible position"). Normally, only players on offense with eligible numbers are permitted to touch the ball by taking a snap from center, receiving a hand-off or catching a pass. It is not uncommon for running backs to line up at wide receiver on certain plays, or to have a large lineman play at fullback or tight end in short yardage situations. Also, in preseason games, when teams have expanded rosters, players may wear numbers that are outside of the above rules. When the final 53-player roster is established, they are reissued numbers within the above guidelines.

Awards


Vince Lombardi Trophy
AFC Championship Game (Lamar Hunt Trophy)
NFC Championship Game (George S. Halas Trophy)
NFL Most Valuable Player Award
NFL Coach of the Year Award
NFL Offensive Player of the Year Award
NFL Defensive Player of the Year Award
NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year Award
NFL Defensive Rookie of the Year Award
Super Bowl MVP
NFL Comeback Player of the Year Award
Walter Payton Man of the Year Award
Pro Bowl MVP



Notes


↑ Charles K. Ross, Outside the Lines: African Americans and the Integration of the National Football League (NYU Press, 2000, ISBN 978-0814774953).
↑ Jump up to:2.0 2.1 2.2 NFL, NFL TV and Radio Broadcast Partner Schedule. Retrieved February 2, 2018.
↑ James Alder, How the NFL Determines the Order Teams Select in For the Draft ThoughtCo. Retrieved February 2, 2018.
↑ Tim McDonald, Find Out What the Time Limits for Each Round of the NFL Draft Is ThoughtCo. Retrieved February 2, 2018.
↑ In a league of its own. The Economist, April 27, 2006. Retrieved February 2, 2018.
↑ James Alder, The NFL's Uniform Numbering System ThoughtCo. Retrieved February 2, 2018.



References


Editors at the NFL. 2006 NFL Record and Fact Book. Sports Illustrated, 2006. ISBN 1933405325
Editors at the NFL. Total Football II: The Official Encyclopedia of the National Football League. Sports Illustrated, 2006. ISBN 978-1933405322
Ross, Charles K. Outside the Lines: African Americans and the Integration of the National Football League. NYU Press, 2000. ISBN 978-0814774953



External links
All links retrieved November 11, 2022.

Official NFL website
Official Super Bowl website
ESPN.com's NFL Section
Process of game-time decisions will eliminate TV duds, create chaos by Michael Hiestand, USA Today, April 5, 2006
Pro Football Reference - Historical stats of every team, player and coach in the NFL.



Credits
New World Encyclopedia writers and editors rewrote and completed the Wikipedia article in accordance with New World Encyclopedia standards. This article abides by terms of the Creative Commons CC-by-sa 3.0 License (CC-by-sa), which may be used and disseminated with proper attribution. Credit is due under the terms of this license that can reference both the New World Encyclopedia contributors and the selfless volunteer contributors of the Wikimedia Foundation. To cite this article click here for a list of acceptable citing formats.The history of earlier contributions by wikipedians is accessible to researchers here:

National_Football_League  history


The history of this article since it was imported to New World Encyclopedia:

History of "National Football League"


Note: Some restrictions may apply to use of individual images which are separately licensed.
Categories:

Art, music, literature, sports and leisure
Sports and leisure


Privacy policy
About New World Encyclopedia
Disclaimers
Content is available under Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License; additional terms may apply. See Terms of Use for details.