NCAA logo
"NCAA" redirects here. For the unrelated athletics association in the Philippines, see National Collegiate Athletic Association (Philippines). For other uses, see NCAA (disambiguation).
Not to be confused with National Christian College Athletic Association or NCCA (disambiguation).

Origins
The NCAA, a member-led organization, was founded in 1906 to regulate the rules of college sport and protect young athletes.
At the start of the 20th century, mass formations and gang tackling gave football a reputation as a brutal sport. During the 1904 season alone, there were 18 deaths and 159 serious injuries on the field. At the college level, hired players not enrolled in school often filled out rosters. Some colleges and universities halted football on their campuses. The public outcry grew for the sport to be reformed or abolished.
In October 1905, President Theodore Roosevelt, a longtime football fan, called together athletics leaders from some of the top football schools — Harvard, Princeton and Yale — and urged them to clean up the game. As football deaths and injuries continued to mount during the 1905 season, New York University Chancellor Henry M. MacCracken convened a meeting of 13 schools in December to reform football playing rules. Soon after, on Dec. 28 in New York, 62 colleges and universities became charter members of the Intercollegiate Athletic Association of the United States, the precursor to the NCAA.
The IAAUS officially was constituted as a rules-making body March 31, 1906, and in 1910 was renamed the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Just over a decade later, the Association expanded its focus to host its first national championship: the National Collegiate Track and Field Championships in 1921. Many others followed, including a basketball championship in 1939.

Growth
After World War II, the NCAA adopted the “Sanity Code,” principles that covered financial aid, recruitment and academic standards and were intended to ensure amateurism in college sports. Abuses continued, however, and both the membership and championships were growing. It became clear the Association needed full-time professional leadership.
In 1951, Walter Byers was named executive director, a role he would hold for 36 years. Byers established the Association’s national office in Kansas City, Missouri, in 1952 and quickly went to work. Under his leadership, a program to control live televising of football games was approved, and the NCAA established a system to investigate violations and enforce penalties.
As college athletics grew, bigger schools invested more in their sports programs, while smaller-budget schools struggled to keep pace. In 1973, the Association’s membership was divided into Divisions I, II and III, with each division having legislative powers and separate championships. Five years later, Division I members voted to create subdivisions I-A and I-AA (renamed the Football Bowl Subdivision and the Football Championship Subdivision in 2007) in football.
Title IX, the federal law prohibiting sex discrimination in education, led to an expansion of women’s athletics programs at colleges and universities around the country in the 1970s. At the 1980 Convention, Divisions II and III established 10 championships for women. A year later, the Association adopted a governance plan to include women’s athletics within the NCAA structure and added 19 women’s championships, including Division I and National Collegiate events. In November 1981, the first women’s teams were crowned NCAA champions, ushering in a new era for women’s sports.  
On the heels of a number of high-profile enforcement cases, many involving football and basketball, the Association in 1983 adopted Convention Proposal No. 48, which strengthened academic requirements for prospective student-athletes. During this same period, college and university presidents became more involved in the governance of the Association. In 1984, the NCAA established the Presidents Commission, a group of presidents from the three divisions charged with setting an agenda for the Association.
After Walter Byers retired Oct. 1, 1987, University of Virginia Athletics Director Richard D. Schultz took the helm of the NCAA for six years. Schultz was succeeded by University of Arizona Athletics Director Cedric Dempsey in 1994. Dempsey, who led the NCAA until December 2002, oversaw a landmark restructuring of NCAA governance that provided greater autonomy for the three divisions and placed institutional presidents in charge of each division and of the Association in general. Dempsey also led the national office move to Indianapolis in 1999.
In January 2003, Myles Brand left his post at Indiana to become the first university president to serve as the Association’s chief executive. Under Brand, major academic reforms were accomplished in Divisions I and II, and presidential involvement in governance became increasingly effective. Brand also oversaw efforts at fiscal reform and championed diversity and inclusion measures. He died of cancer Sept. 16, 2009.

A new century for the Association
Mark A. Emmert, president at the University of Washington, took over as NCAA president Oct. 5, 2010. As it has forged ahead into its second century, the NCAA has continued its work focused on three guiding principles: academic success, student-athlete well-being and fairness.
The NCAA Sport Science Institute was created in 2013 to spearhead health and safety efforts, and the Association partnered with the Department of Defense in 2014 on the most comprehensive study conducted in the history of concussion research, work that continues and is expanding understanding of how to prevent mild traumatic brain injuries.
The Association also took a stand against discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity after several states passed laws that permitted such discrimination in accordance with religious beliefs. In 2016, the Board of Governors announced new requirements for championship host cities that expanded protections against discrimination.
The September 2017 announcement of a federal investigation into fraud in college basketball recruiting made it clear the NCAA needed to make significant changes quickly to ensure a fair playing court. The Association established a Commission on College Basketball to identify needed reforms. Based on the commission’s recommendations, the NCAA’s Board of Governors and Division I Board of Directors made sweeping changes to promote integrity in the game of basketball, strengthen accountability and prioritize the interests of student-athletes.
Health and safety took the forefront in March 2020. As the severity of the COVID-19 pandemic became apparent, the NCAA took the unprecedented step of canceling all of its remaining winter and spring championships, including the Division I Men’s and Women’s Basketball Championships days before selections were to be made. Fall championships were canceled or pushed to spring. With extensive COVID-19 testing programs and other precautions in place, championships returned in 2021. To limit exposure, all rounds of the Division I men’s basketball tournament were moved to the Indianapolis area, while the women’s tournament was held entirely in the San Antonio region.  
As the NCAA looks ahead, one of its biggest priorities is modernizing rules surrounding student-athletes’ use of their name, image and likeness. In June 2021, governance bodies in all three divisions adopted a uniform interim policy suspending NCAA name, image and likeness rules for all incoming and current student-athletes in all sports. Association leaders pledged to continue to work with Congress to adopt federal legislation to support student-athletes.

Presidents of the NCAA
[edit]
The NCAA had no full-time administrator until 1951, when Walter Byers was appointed executive director. In 1998, the title was changed to president.

Walter Byers 1951–1988 (Executive Director)
James Frank 1981–1983 (Executive Director)
Dick Schultz 1988–1993
Judith Sweet 1991–1993
Cedric Dempsey 1994–2002
Myles Brand 2003–2009
Jim Isch 2009–2010 (interim)
Mark Emmert 2010–2023
Charlie Baker 2023–present




NCAA sponsored sports
[edit]
The NCAA currently awards 90 national championships yearly – 46 women's, 41 men's, and 3 coed championships for fencing, rifle, and skiing. Sports sanctioned by the NCAA include the following: basketball, baseball (men), track and field, softball (women), football (men), cross country, field hockey (women), bowling (women), golf, fencing (coeducational), lacrosse, soccer, gymnastics, rowing (women), swimming and diving, beach volleyball (women), volleyball, ice hockey, water polo, rifle (coeducational), tennis, skiing (coeducational), and wrestling (men).
The newest sport to be officially sanctioned is beach volleyball, which held its first championship in spring 2016. The NCAA had called the sport "sand volleyball" until June 23, 2015, when it announced that it would use the internationally recognized name of "beach volleyball".
The Football Bowl Subdivision of Division I determines its own champion separately from the NCAA via the College Football Playoff; this is not an official NCAA championship (see below).
The NCAA awards championships in the sports listed below. For the three coeducational championships, women's dates reflect the first championship that was open to women.



In addition to the sports above, the NCAA sanctioned a boxing championship from 1932 to 1960. The NCAA discontinued boxing following declines in the sport during the 1950s and following the death of a boxer at the 1960 NCAA tournament.
The NCAA also formerly sanctioned a trampoline championship. Prior to 1969, it was one of the events in the men's gymnastics championship, but it was given its own championship in 1969 and 1970 before being dropped completely.


The number of teams (school programs) that compete in each sport in their respective division as of the 2021–22 academic year are as follows:

Notes:

^ Jump up to:a b c d e f Coed Championship sport



Emerging sports for women
[edit]
Main article: NCAA Emerging Sports for Women
In addition to the above sports, the NCAA recognizes Emerging Sports for Women. These sports have scholarship limitations for each sport, but do not currently have officially sanctioned NCAA championships. A member institution may use these sports to meet the required level of sports sponsorship for its division. An "Emerging Sport" must gain championship status (minimum 40 varsity programs for team sports, except 28 for Division III) within 10 years, or show steady progress toward that goal to remain on the list. Until then, it is under the auspices of the NCAA and its respective institutions. Emerging Sport status allows for competition to include club teams to satisfy the minimum number of competitions bylaw established by the NCAA.
The six sports currently designated as Emerging Sports for Women are:

Acrobatics & tumbling
Equestrian (in Divisions I and II only)
Rugby
Stunt (in Divisions I and II only)
Triathlon
Wrestling



Sports added and dropped
[edit]
The popularity of each of these sports programs has changed over time. Between 1988–89 and 2010–11, NCAA schools had net additions of 510 men's teams and 2,703 women's teams.
The following tables show the changes over time in the number of NCAA schools across all three divisions combined sponsoring each of the men's and women's team sports.

Men's sports
[edit]
The men's sports with the biggest net gains during the 1988/89 to 2010/11 period were indoor track and field, lacrosse, and cross country (each with more than 100 net gains). The men's sports with the biggest losses were wrestling (−104 teams), tennis, and rifle; the men's team sport with the most net losses was water polo. Other reports show that 355 college wrestling programs have been eliminated since 2000; 212 men's gymnastics programs have been eliminated since 1969 with only 17 programs remaining as of 2013.
Additionally, eight NCAA sports—all men's sports—were sponsored by fewer Division I schools in 2020 than in 1990, despite the D-I membership having increased by nearly 60 schools during that period. Four of these sports, namely wrestling, swimming & diving, gymnastics, and tennis, lost more than 20 net teams during that timeframe. As a proportion of D-I membership, men's tennis took the greatest hit; 71.5% of D-I members had men's tennis in 2020, compared to 93.2% in 1990.

The following table lists the men's individual DI sports with at least 5,000 participating athletes. Sports are ranked by number of athletes.



Women's sports
[edit]
The women's sports with the biggest net gains during the 1988–89 to 2010–11 period were soccer (+599 teams), golf, and indoor track and field; no women's sports programs experienced double-digit net losses.



Conferences
[edit]
See also: List of NCAA conferences and List of college athletic conferences in the United States
The NCAA is divided into three levels of conferences, Division I, Division II, and Division III, organized in declining program size, as well as numerous sub-divisions. Most schools belong to a primary "multisport conference" for most of their sports. Schools may belong to different conferences for different sports.
The Division I, Division II, and Division III "Independents" listed below are not conferences per se; it is a designation used for schools that do not belong to a conference for a particular sport. These schools may still have conference memberships for other sports. For example, Notre Dame primarily belongs to the Atlantic Coast Conference for most sports, but its ice hockey team competes in the Big Ten Conference and its football team is an independent.

Notes and references


As "Intercollegiate Athletic Association of the United States" (IAAUS), renamed "National Collegiate Athletic Association" in 1910.
NCAA is commonly pronounced "N C double A" by the general public and in outside media reports, but generally pronounced one letter at a time, "N C A A", in the organization's official media. In its early decades, the pronunciation "N C two A" was also used – this variation is rarely used today.