Illustration of someone reassuring a person having a panic attack.
A panic attack is a sudden feeling of intense fear. It can also be called an  anxiety attack. It is accompanied by physical symptoms that can be quite impressive.
Panic attacks most often affect teenagers and young adults and are more common in women, but they can happen to anyone, regardless of age or sex.

Symptoms
Panic attacks manifest themselves in many different ways depending on the person affected. The most common symptoms are shortness of breath, chest pain or tightness, acceleration of heart rate
and palpitations. It also often causes nausea, tremors, hot flushes (or, on the contrary, a feeling of cold), confusion, fainting... Some people may feel they are going crazy or dying, which makes them even more anxious, creating a vicious circle. It can last from a few minutes to several hours.
Because of these symptoms, many people who have anxiety attacks for the first time call the emergency services because they think they are having a heart attack or are suffering from a heart or respiratory disease.
Although it can be very impressive and sometimes even painful, it is not dangerous. You cannot die from a panic attack.

Causes
Panic attacks can have a wide variety of causes. They can be environmental, psychological or genetic.
The best known are stress and unhappiness. A panic attack can occur after a traumatic event, when you are going through a very stressful moment or period or when you are confronted with one of your phobias. Sometimes they can happen for no apparent reason. For example, it may occur during sleep.
They can also be caused by health or hormonal problems, such as hyperthyroidism.
Finally, the consumption of alcohol or drugs can provoke anxiety attacks.

How to manage
If someone is having a panic attack, the first thing to do is to help them calm down, for example by doing breathing exercises with them or by trying to focus their attention on something more pleasant. While some people like to be talked to and reassured, others prefer to be alone. If a person close to you suffers frequent panic attacks, you can ask them what they would prefer you to do to help them.
If panic attacks are very frequent and prevent someone from living properly, it is possible that they have an anxiety disorder known as panic disorder. In this case, treatment is necessary. Cognitive behavioral therapies generally show themselves to be effective. In the most serious cases, medication such as anxiolytics or antidepressents may be prescribed.

References

Panic Attacks, YoungMinds
What is a panic attack?, Twinkl USA
Panic attack and panic disorder, Mayo Clinic