Pierre de Fermat.
Pierre de Fermat is one of the top ten greatest mathematicians in history. He was born in southwestern France in 1601. Pierre de Fermat received amonastery education. He attended the University of Toulouse.

What did he invent?
Pierre de Fermat established the foundations of the theory of probability. (*)  He credited “Monsieur Fermat's method of drawing tangents”.  Already it is clear that Fermat has changed the world we live in, because everybody from insurance companies to stock markets use probability theory.  For example, Fermat showed that 26 is the only number trapped between a square and a cube, because :



"5×5 = 25 and 3x3x3 = 27" Fermat was able to use mathematical logic to prove that no other numbers from zero to infinity have this property. (If you go below zero, then -1 also has this property).




We have to solve it !
Pierre de Fermat wrote the theorem but he never said how to resolve it. So, during 300 years plenty of mathematicians tried it and finally it's Andrew Wiles that solved Fermat's theorem in 1994. Andrew Wiles was so proud and happy that he cried, he even said "It was the most, the most important moment of my life."

Something funny !

When Fermat wrote some notes, saying things like "I can prove such and such but I have to feed the cat", or "I can solve a particular equation but I have to wash my hair", and all of these notes were discovered after his death.  Mathematicians across Europe studied Fermat's observations and attempted to rediscover the proofs behind the theorems. Over the course of the next century, each theorem was proved, except for the one, which would become known as Fermat's Last Theorem (that was solved by Andrew Wiles.)  "There is a statue of Fermat and his muse in his home town of Toulouse." (*)

References



Other websites

(Informations about the equation.)
(Biography)
(This video shows us the man who solve the equation.)
(Probability Math Lesson for Kids at Math4children.com)
(Solved Example on Theoretical Probability)







DEFAULTSORT

simple:Pierre de Fermat
wp:Pierre de Fermat
fr:Pierre de Fermat
(*) http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/mathematics/18-175-theory-of-probability-fall-2008/lecture-notes/section_1.pdf  18.175 Theory of ProbabilityFall 2008
(*) http://www-history.mcs.st-and.ac.uk/HistTopics/Fermat's_last_theorem.html  Fermat's last theorem