A practical joke is something to make someone laugh. Pranks can be anywhere from a small door wrap to balloons everywhere. Pranks can be celebrated on April Fools' Day which is April 1st. Pranks can be funny or they can be madness.

School pranks

School supplies that you can eat. People would be confused because they do not know it is not the actual material.
Make a pencil's eraser be crayon.

1. Grab something hot like fire, pink or white crayon, and a pencil.
2. Take the pencil eraser out.
3. Melt pink crayon with the flame and pour it into the pencil. It has to be pink or white crayon because that is usually the color of an eraser.
4. Seal it.
5. Give it to a friend. When they erase something, they are using crayon instead.

Decorate the teacher's (s') desk with candy. Do not do this if they do not like candy.

1. Use the candy at home and bring it with you secretly. You do not want your parents to know that you are bringing candy to school. Do it on days when candy is highly popular.
2. When they are not there, decorate candy around their desk.  (*)

House pranks

Autocorrect. When they spell a word, it changes to a misspelled word.


1. Go to their word, anything that presentations that have autocorrect on them placed
2. Change the autocorrects to misspelled words or fake words.
3. Get someone to type of that device and they will be typing fake words.

Tape mouse. The mouse will not work when tape under it.


1. Put tape on the computer mouse.
2. Ask a friend to go on the computer, the mouse cannot connect to the computer.  (*)

Senior pranks
Senior pranks are pranks used for graduation

Forky field. Forks everywhere and can also be a school prank. Used for usually the year of graduation


1. You need alot of forks. Buy a lot of plastic forks when your parents go to a store that sells them. Ask first.
2. People who are graduating, decorate the field and make the graduation year.

Balloon hallway. Balloons all in the hallway. Needs balloons


1. Buy tons of balloons.
2. On the graduation day, decorate the hallway with balloons in the hallway. Ask friends to help.


Citations



Warnings

The victim does not always laugh
Some pranks require cleanup alot
Your victim may tell your parents
DO NOT DO ANY PRANKS WITH THE EMERGENCY SERVICE. Your parents will be charged a fine for false reporting and you could get in severe trouble.
Some pranks are risky








50px|alt=|link=







This  does not have many mainspace categories. You can help by adding more categories.










(*) https://www.wikihow.com/Prank-in-School Pranks at school
(*) https://www.wikihow.com/Play-a-Prank Home pranks