Quartiere Bocconi — district ("quartiere") in Milan, Italy. It is located in Zone 5 and is centered on Viale Bligny.
The name comes from Bocconi University, which is located in Viale Bligny and is considered one of the most important universities for top managers in the world.
Viale Bligny is considered one of the trendiest streets in Milan, similar to New York's Upper East Side, being full of young wealthy individuals, Bocconi University master's students, and fashion designers who enjoy aperitifs and dine at the most experimental restaurants in Milan.
The area is located on a square that runs through its most important street - Viale Bligny, full of fashionable clubs and luxury restaurants, Viale Col di Lana, Corso San Gottardo, Via Ripamonti, Via Vittore Buzzi - Via Spadolini, Viale Tibaldi. The area is characterized by the large Bocconi University Campus Park, which also includes the Ravizza Park, the Park of Memories and the Park of the Resistance.
The area is close to the Navigli, the Prada Foundation, the Mirasole Oasis and the Vettabbia Park, considered the central park of Milan and very popular among Bocconi students.

Film
Many scenes from the neorealist film Rocco and His Brothers directed by Luchino Visconti with Alain Delon and Claudia Cardinale were filmed on Viale Bligny, including the iconic laundry scenes and boxing scenes at Teatro Principe at Viale Bligny 52.

Films shot in Viale Bligny

Un giorno nella vita (1946) - Directed by Alessandro Blasetti. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
La Dolce Vita (1960) - Directed by Federico Fellini. Some scenes of the film were shot in different locations on Viale Bligny.
Tutti a casa (1960) - Directed by Luigi Comencini. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
L'Avventura (1960) - Directed by Michelangelo Antonioni. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
La Notte (1961) - Directed by Michelangelo Antonioni. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
Il Gattopardo (1963) - Directed by Luchino Visconti. Although most of the filming was done in Sicily, some scenes were shot in Milan, including areas on Viale Bligny.
Morte a Venezia (1971) - Directed by Luchino Visconti. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
Un Amore di Storia (2005) - Directed by Luciano Manuzzi. Filmed on Viale Bligny.



Transport

Tram stop: Line 9
Bus stops: Lines 59, 90, 91, 92
Line  of the Milan Metro: Crocetta Station
Line  of the Milan Metro: Porta Romana Station
Line  of the Milan Metro: Santa Sofia Station, direct connection (10 min.) to Milan Linate Airport