Racism is the discrimination or prejudice of someone due to their race or ethnicity. Someone who harbours racism is called a racist.
Racism is not to be confused with Xenophobia, the hatred of someone due to their nationality and/or national origin, though sometimes they can be linked.
Racism can include hate crimes, hate speech, discrimination and stereotypes of a racial group. Racism can also be institutional, meaning that society and/or governments discriminate against people based on their race or laws are made favouring one racial group over another, leading to a situation in which one group is privileged over another. It can also lead to genocide of a particular group.
Racism is also a part of certain ideologies such as ethnic supremacy, ethnic nationalism, fascism, or Nazism.

By country

South Africa

Main article: Apartheid

In South Africa, there was a system of instituionalized racial segregation called "apartheid" which existed from 1948 to the early 1990s. Apartheid led to white people, who were a minority in South Africa to be privileged and dominate the society politically, socially and economically.

United States

Main articles: Slavery in the United States, Racism in the United States and Segregation in the United States

In the United States, black people were allowed to be owned as slaves. Though different states had different laws with some states allowing slavery and some states outlawing it, slavery was banned on a national level in the US in 1865 with the Thirteenth Amendment.
In the US, segregation between colored people and white people existed. For example, many establishments only allowed white people, drinking fountains were seperate, and schools were segregated. Figures such as Rosa Parks, Malcolm X and Martin Luther King Jr. were influential in ending segregation in the US.
Segregation was banned on 2 July 1964 with the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Lynchings in the US were commonplace from 1830s till the 1950s and 1960s, perpetrated by groups such as the Ku Klux Klan.
On 25 May 2020, George Floyd was murdered by a Minneapolis, Minnesota police officer named Derek Chauvin. The murder led to protests against police brutality.