Sanskrit in devanagari writing.
Sanskrit is an old language of India, which is commonly used by priests and scholars of old texts including many religious ones. It is the sacred language of Hinduism. Today, about 14,000 people in use it as their daily language. A little more than two hundred thousand (200,000) people in the world can speak it well, while many people know at least a little Sanskrit because of the importance it has to other Indian languages and the Hindu religion.
Sanskrit is an Indo-European languages, which means it must come from a proto-Indo-European language, so as most European languages. Today it is one of the 22 scheduled languages of India (languages with an official status).

Writing system
Sanskrit is written in the Devanagari script, one of the oldest writing systems in the world. Some other languages such as Hindi and Marathi are also written in Devanagari, but Sanskrit is the first language to use this writing system. Originally Sanskrit was not a written language, and when it started being written, a number of different scripts were used initially, until Devanagari became the standard.

Where is this language spoken?

Sanskrit was used widely in ancient times, but nowadays there are very few areas in the world where this language is spoken. It was invented in India, and some communities in India still speak in Sanskrit. Many Asian Buddhists can also speak Sanskrit. It is found in Hindu holy writings and hymns. It is known to be used regularly in some areas in South India, though. In many remote villages in India Sanskrit is spoken even today. Sanskrit is the official language of the Indian state of Uttarakhand in India.

History

There are many theories to how Sanskrit came into existence. One of them is about an Aryan migration from the west into India who brought their language with them. Sanskrit is an ancient language and is comparable to the Latin language spoken in Europe. The earliest known book in the world was written in Sanskrit. After the compilation of Upanishads, Sanskrit just faded due to hierarchy. Sanskrit is a very complex and rich language, which has served to be the source for many modern Indian languages, just like Latin is the source for European languages like French and Spanish.
Sanskrit was considered a high-status language and was spoken by officials, kings, noblemen, etc. It was difficult for the common man to understand refined Sanskrit. Sanskrit eventually became almost extinct from day-to-day usage, but it was kept alive by holy men, scholars, and Buddhists.

Sanskrit words

Some Sanskrit word are used in English such as Himalayas, Buddha, or Yoga.

<gallery perrow="4" widths="200" heights="180">
Dhampus-Peak.jpg|
Himalayas (हिमालय himâlaya) meaning in Sanskrit « where the snow stands ».
Buddha lantau.jpg|
Buddha (बुद्धा buddha) meaning « the awaked ».
Shivaratri-07.jpg|Yoga (योग yoga) meaning « union ».
</gallery>

Here are other basic words:



Writers, authors and poets
Many ancient writers such as Vyasa, Valmiki, Kalidasa, Bhasa, Bhartruhari, and Chanakya wrote in Sanskrit. It is a rich language and they became famous for enriching it further. The great Hindu epics, Ramayana and Mahabharata, are written in Sanskrit, as are the Vedas, Upanishads, and Subhashitratnani.

A poem in Sanskrit

Sanskrit

कर्मण्येवाधिकारस्ते मा फलेषु कदाचन।
मा कर्मफलहेतुर्भूर्मा ते सङ्गोस्त्वकर्मणि॥
—श्रीमद्भगवद्गीता (२:४७)


In English letters

karmany evadhikaras te ma phaleshu kadachana
ma karma-phala-hetur bhur ma te sango 'stv akarmani
—Shri Bhagvatgita (Chapter 2 verse 47)


English Translation

Your right is to work only,
But never to its fruits;
Let not the fruits of action be thy motive,
Nor let thy attachment be to inaction.
—Shri Bhagvatgita (2:47)


English meaning

karmani—prescribed duties
eva—certainly
adhikarah—right
te—of you
ma—never
phaleshu—in the fruits
kadachana—at any time
ma—never
karma-phala—in the result of the work
hetuh—cause
bhuh—become
ma—never
te—of you
sangah—attachment
astu—be there
akarmani—in not doing.



Phrases

Welcome: स्वागतम् (svāgatam)
Hello: नमस्ते (namaste)
How are you doing (masculine): कथमस्ति भवान् (kathamasti bhavān)
How are you doing (feminine): कथमस्ति भवती (kathamasti bhavatī)
Good morning: सुप्रभातम् (suprabhātam)
Good night: शुभरात्री (śubharātrī)
Goodbye: पुनर्मिलाम (punarmilāma)
Yes: भवतु (bhavatu)
No: नैव किल (naiva kila)
I don't know: न जानामि (na jānāmi)
Do you speak Sanskrit? (masculine): भवान् संस्कृतं भाषते वा? (bhavān samskṛtaṃ bhāṣate vā)
Do you speak Sanskrit? (feminine): भवती संस्कृतं भाषते वा? (bhavatī saṃskṛtaṃ bhāṣate vā)