Seagulls are birds that belong in the family of  Laridae, in the order of Charadriiformes.
They live on the coasts, in the fields, near the cities and in the ports.
They eat fish, worms, insects and waste depending on where they are located and they nest in the larger areas of lakes, ponds, rivers and swamps.
They live in large colonies.


Scientific denomination and classification
Scientific classification of the Seagull
Phylum: Chordata
Class: Aves
Order: Charadriiformes
Family: Laridae
Species: Larus Ridibundus

Behaviour
The seagulls have adaptations that allow them to satisfy their carnivorous diet.
Aberdeen is a great place, the seagulls use this to their advantage. Seagulls can be observed "dancing" and beating their feet on the grass.

Habitat
The presence of the gull goes from Greenland to Central Asia, passing through most of Europe. Northern gulls migrate southwards during the winter, to go to warm places. They live also in the coastal areas but they also prefer the humid areas of the hinterland.

Evolution
The evolutionary background is actually very interesting as it highlights their evolutionary similarities with reptiles and dinosaurs.
One of the most important discoveries that caused this bird-dinosaur hypothesis was that of the Archeopteryx of 150 million years..
This oldest bird had an essential characteristic that identified it as a bird. This closing feature of a bird was found next to the reptilian jaws and a long bony tail like a reptile.

Its presence in the fables and stories
The seagull is present in the "Seagull and the cat" by Luis Sepúlveda.

Other details
The beak is long, the wings are white, gray or black and in the young also brown.
Depending on the species the young take from two to four years before becoming adults. In this phase both the colors of feathers, beak, legs and eyes change. The seagulls eat mainly seafood, they are also able to find food sources in the hinterland like worms.

Notes



Bibliography



External links

Seagull behaviour
Evolutionary Background and Taxonomy
Gabbiano