Location of Seychelles
Geography : Located in the Indian Ocean, around 1600 km of the coast of Kenya in East Africa, the small island nation of Seychelles is made up of 115 tropical islands.  This archipelago is comprised of islands of granite and islands of coral.  The Granite group, which are the inner set of islands, are the oldest mid-oceanic islands in the world.  The outer islands are much younger and more recently formed, and are largely low lying coral formations.  There are around 41 Inner Islands and 74 Outer Islands.  The land mass of this island nation is set in what is known as an Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). The EEZ spreads across 1.4 million square kilometres of combined ocean and land mass.

Climate change issues : The main climate change threats facing Seychelles are similar to those threatening other small island developing states: changes in rainfall patterns leading to flooding, landslides on one hand and extended periods of drought on the other, increases in sea temperature, changes in acidity and damage to marine ecosystems, increases in storms and storm surges, and sea level rise during the longer term (NDC). A recent UNISDR report has revealed that most disasters occurring in Seychelles were related to storms, floods, rain and landslides, and recommended that future planning should focus on losses from flooding and landslides which also caused the greatest economic losses.
Economy : The economy remains highly dependent on tourism, making it highly vulnerable to global macroeconomic developments. Investor interests in the blue economy sector are growing. Fisheries remain the largest sector after tourism. Growth reached 9% in 2022, before moderating to 4.3% in 2023
Politics : Under the 1993 constitution, since amended, Seychelles is a republic. The head of state and government is the president, who is directly elected by popular vote and may hold office for up to two consecutive five-year terms. Members of the National Assembly serve five-year terms. A majority of the available National Assembly seats are filled by direct election; a smaller portion are distributed on a proportional basis to those parties that win a minimum of one-tenth of the vote. The president appoints a Council of Ministers, which acts as an advisory body. The country is divided into 25 administrative divisions.