Sakharine Utsav, or Poush Sankranti for Bengalis or Kite Utsav, is an annual winter festival celebrated in Bangladesh by flying kites. The Sanskrit word 'Sankranti' has been corrupted into 'Saccharine'. It is celebrated on the last day of Paush month, which falls on the 14th or 15th of January in the Gregorian calendar, at the junction of Paush and Magha months all over India. However, in old Dhaka, Paush Sankranti or Saccharine has become a universal Dhaka festival.
Fireworks at Saccharine Festival
Apart from flying kites throughout the day, colourful fireworks and lanterns fill the sky of rig Buanga City in the evening. In a word, Saccharine is a kind of kite festival. It is seen as a symbol of unity and friendship and is one of the ancient festivals of Bangladesh. Although it is not celebrated all over Bangladesh, it is trendy and an essential part of Bangladeshi culture.

Event
The Shakrain festival is celebrated in Dhaka city with enthusiasm and joy. Known initially as Pausha Sankranti or Sakrain, the festival is celebrated in a more crowded manner in the Hindu-dominated areas of Old Dhaka, such as Shankharibazar, Tantibazar, Goalnagar, Laxmibazar, Sutrapur, Gendaria, Lalbagh and its surrounding areas. People of all ages participate in the festival with great enthusiasm. In the afternoon, colourful kites can be seen flying in the sky in these areas. In kite flying competitions, participants try to cut off each other's kite strings while standing on rooftops or on the road.
At night, Old Dhaka comes alive with fireworks. Fire acrobats stand on the roofs to entertain the audience with their skills. After the evening, colourful lanterns are flown in the sky, and house-to-house pithapuli are organized.

Controversy and criticism
There has been a lot of debate, criticism, and discussion about using saccharin in recent years. Many people don't consume saccharin due to religious or environmental reasons. Makar Sankranti is a festival celebrated in Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, and surrounding regions of India. In contrast, Tirmuri is celebrated in Pakistan's Sindh province, and Spring is celebrated in many parts of Punjab province, including Lahore and Sialkot in mid-January-to-February. Sakrain is observed in Old Dhaka on the 14th or 15th of January. Many people in Old Dhaka observe the fair or Vasant Panchami, while Makar Sankranti and Basant Mela are cultural festivals of Hindus and Sikhs. As a result, many Muslims in Old Dhaka do not participate in these celebrations.