A spambot is a program developed to collect a series of e-mail addresses from the Internet for the purpose of creating mailing lists for the transmission of unsolicited e-mail messages, also known as spam. A number of lawmakers in the United States have been appointed to develop banning laws for spambot.

Typology
A spambot is a special type of web crawler that can collect email addresses from websites, newsgroups, newsgroup posts, and chat room conversations. Since email addresses have a well-defined structure, it is very easy to make a spambot.
Another type of spambot scours the web for fillable forms and sends spam messages through these forms, often using OCR technologies to bypass any CAPTCHAs.
There are also spambots used to insert links in guestbooks, wikis, blogs, forums and any other web technology, in order to increase the positioning of web pages in PageRank search engines.

Solutions
A large number of programs and methods have been devised to prevent spambots. One of these techniques is known as address munging, which is to deliberately alter an email address so that it can be read by a person (and / or a web browser used by a person) but not by a spambot. This has led to the development of specialized spambots that can retrieve email addresses from character sets that appear to have been 'broken', or by viewing the text in a web browser and then collecting email addresses from the displayed text. Another technique to combat spambots is to publish the text of the email address as an image within the page, making it possible for users to view the email address. Although this method is effective in the fight against spambots, it is not compatible with the standards of accessibility of web pages, as well as preventing the possibility of using links - that is, users cannot click on the address to send an email.
The term spambot is sometimes used to refer to a program used to prevent spam from reaching the customers of an Internet service provider (ISP). Such programs are most often referred to as filters. Occasionally, such filters can inadvertently block even a legitimate e-mail message. This can be avoided by allowing the subscriber to generate a whitelist, or a list of specific email addresses that the filter should let through.