Spy × Family is a manga series by Tatsuya Endō. The English version of the manga has been published by Shueisha since March 2019. There are 13 mangas in the series, all translated in English.
The manga has been adapted into an anime. It was first broadcast on April 9, 2022.

Plot

It's the Cold War between East and West, and an uneasy peace has been established between the nations of Ostania (東国オスタニア, Osutania) and Westalis (西国ウェスタリス, Wesutarisu). With this agreement still fragile, “Twilight”, a brilliant Westalian spy operating in Ostania, is tasked with carrying out a mission called “Operation Strix”. This involves getting close to an extremist politician from Ostania, Donovan Desmond. Twilight is forced to adopt a child and enroll them in the prestigious Eden School, which Desmond's son also attends, as he is difficult to approach directly.
Posing as a psychiatrist named Loid Forger, Twilight ends up visiting an orphanage in his search for a child. He crosses paths with Anya, a little girl who can read other people's minds and has a passion for the world of espionage. Discovering Loid's true intentions, Anya arranges to be chosen by making him believe she can pass Eden's entrance test. Anya barely passes the written tests, but the school requires the presence of “both parents” for the selection interview. Twilight has no choice but to find a woman to take on the role of wife.
They meet Yor Briar, a discreet town hall official whose appearance is the subject of mockery because she is still unmarried. In reality, she's a professional killer operating under the code name “Princess Ibara” and is looking for a man to maintain her cover. Anya learns with her power that Yor is an assassin and, out of curiosity, urges her to become his mother. As a result, everyone's interests coincide, and the three of them begin to live as a makeshift family, each hiding their true identities from the others.

Characters


The Forger Family

Twilight (黄昏, Tasogare) / Loid Forger (ロイド・フォージャー, Roido Fōjā)

Loid is a spy for WISE (対東課, Taihigashika), Westalis intelligence agency, with extraordinary combat, memory and information-processing abilities. He uses different faces and names for each mission, although he is generally known by his code name, “Twilight”. In order to proceed with his latest mission, he must have a “child” enrolled in a prestigious school, one of whose admission criteria is that “both parents must be present”, and that's the reason he created a false family with Anya and Yor. He is skilled in cooking and cleaning. As “Loid Forger”, he poses as a psychiatrist at Berlint General Hospital. He was a former war orphan and became a spy in order to create a “world where children don't cry”.


Anya Forger (アーニャ・フォージャー, Ānya Fōjā)

A little girl who can read other people's minds, Anya is the only one who knows her family's overall situation. She's actually only 4 or 5 years old, but pretended to be 6 so that Loid would adopt her. Originally an experimental human test subject called “Subject 007” (被検体007, Hikentai 007), she escaped because she was disgusted with a life where she couldn't behave like a child. Because of her ability, she doesn't enjoy being around crowds. In addition to not having received a proper education, she is not good at studying and sometimes makes up for it by reading someone else's mind to get answers, although it seems she can't use her abilities during a new moon. She loves animated spy series and thinks that “secret” and “mission” are exciting.


Thorn Princess (いばら姫, Ibara-hime) / Yor Forger (ヨル・フォージャー, Yoru Fōjā)

Considered as an ordinary employee of Berlint's central town hall, 27-year-old Yor is in fact a skilled professional killer nicknamed “Thorn Princess”. Her fighting power and physical abilities surpass those of Twilight, but she's a bad liar and a bit of an airhead. She can't have alcohol either. Yor's maiden name before marrying Loid was Briar (ブライア, Buraia). Without knowing who Loid really is, and thinking that Anya is Loid's daughter from her previous marriage, she agreed to the fake marriage so as not to appear suspicious. As an assassin, Yor is good at cleaning, but not at other household chores, especially cooking. For this reason, Loid does most of the cooking, although recently she's started learning to cook from one of her colleagues. Her younger brother, named Yuri, is ostensibly a civil servant and is very attached to his older sister; she hides her killer activities from him.


Bond Forger (ボンド・フォージャー, Bondo Fōjā)

The family dog, Bond, was originally the canine test subject for the Apple project named “Subject 8” (8号, 8-gō). He has the ability to look into the future that was only known to Anya thanks to his telepathy. He met Anya and the Forger family when he was to be used in a bomb attack on Ostania's foreign minister and is adopted by them after helping them foil the terrorists' plans. He was named after Anya's favorite cartoon character, Bondman.