The Beginning
At first there was only one god, Chaos the primordial god, which means the void, or nothingness. We was basically just the collective consciousness or space. But one day some debris and objects came together and formed Earth, which also became a primordial goddess had a consciousness. She named herself Gaea, The Earth Mother. She could either be the earth, or she could become a goddess and roam around the earth that way. Then one day she was bored and lonely and wished that she could have someone to talk to. Chaos heard her and then came Ouranos (pronounced Uranus), the primordial god of the sky and ruler of everything. Like Gaea he could also take a physical form on the Earth and roam it to. Then Gaea and Ouranos got together and had children. Also during this time chaos got a little out of hand and Tartarus and Pontus came to life, Tartarus became the primordial god of the deep deep underground, where monsters and other horrible creatures live, and Pontus became the primordial god of the sea. Now the Titans where born and there were twelve of them. There names where Oceanus, Tethys, Hyperion, Theia, Coeus, Phoebe, Cronus, Rhea, Mnemosyne, Themis, Crius and Iapetus. But then Ouranos left Gaea to raise all twelve titans on her own. But then they had more kids. This time they were cyclops called the elder cyclops. There names where Brontes, Arges, and Steropes, and they were ugly. When Ouranos saw them he tied chains around them and threw them into Tartarus. This made Gaea mad and she threw a tantrum causing all sorts of earthquakes and mayhem, so the titans came to see what the matter was. She was mad at Ouranos but there isn't much you can do when your husband is king of the freaking universe. I don't know why but they had more kids together. These kids where uglier than the elder cyclops. They had a Hundred hands and 50 heads. They where named Briares, Gyes, and Kottos, and when Ouranos saw them he wrapped chains around them and threw them into tartarus. Now this was the tipping point for Gaea. She called her Titan kids and called materials and ores from the earth and formed it around a long wooden stick and called it a scythe. Kronos took the scythe and told Gaea to get Ouranos to come to the earth and then he would slice him up. He also needed help so he asked for four volunteers to hold down there dad while he sliced their dad, and all the girls wisely stayed out, and Oceanus went back to the sea to be with uncle Pontus. That left four boys. Hyperion, Iapetus, Crius, and Coeus. He also promised that all four of them would get a corner of the earth to rule, the North, West, East and South. So later that night Ouranos ascended to the earth to meet with Gaea and was jumped by his five titan sons. Before Kronos could chop up their father, Ouranos placed a curse on Kronos that if he ever had children, they would overthrow his throne and it would be the downfall of the titans, and Kronos just laughed it off. So after a few hundred year he decided to get married to Rhea, the Titan of motherhood and fertility. They had their first kid named Hestia, but Kronos knew that something was wrong with the child. The child was more perfect and well balanced than any Titan. Kronos could tell it was a baby Goddess, so to thwart the curse he swallowed baby Hestia whole. This threw Rhea into a fiery rage but there wasn't anything she could do because she might hurt baby hestia. Because even though she was immortal and technically couldn't die immortals, butn they can get hurt badly enough that they won't be able to heal to their previous selves and will be crippled. So she took her lions and stormed out of the room. Their next baby was another goddess named Demeter, and so Kronos ate her to. Rhea was so mad she started yelling and screaming and crying. She calmed   herself down and told herself that they were still alive down there. The next thing you knew they had another baby. This was another baby was named Hera and Kronos sensed that she was also a goddess and ate her as well. Rhea was starting to lose it. She started to curse and get mad, but Kronos reassured Rhea that it was all for the good of the titans livelihood. The next kid that they had was a boy named Hades and you know how this goes. That kid went down the hatch and by now it was getting quite cramped in there and Kronos was getting sluggish and slow. They had another kid together and this one was a boy named posiedon and he got the same song and dance as his sisters and down the hatch he went. Then when Rhea was pregnant with another baby, mother Gaea told Rhea to go to mount Ida in Crete to deliver the baby. So Rhea told Kronos that she was going to mount Ida to deliver the baby and that  if the baby was born there this baby would please him most of all. So Kronos let her go and told her to come back as soon as the baby was born. So Rhea set off on her journey and when she got to Mount Ida she was greeted by Satyrs and Nymphs and a magical goat that dispensed magical milk. Then she went into labour and baby Zeus was born. He radiated power and Rhea knew that she couldn't take him back to Kronos because Zeus was their last hope. Then baby Zeus started to cry and Rhea asked mother Gaea for help and then she sent the Kourettes, who were very loud and covered up the noise of the baby crying. Then Gaea sent a perfectly round perfectly weighted rock for Rhea and she knew exactly what to do with it. She swaddled it in blankets and took it to mount Othyrs and presented it to Kronos who ate it without even looking at it. Then Rhea said she would have no other kids with Kronos, and that was fine with him because he was getting really stuffed.