Logo of Super Mario Bros.
Super Mario Bros. (スーパーマリオブラザーズ in Japanese) is a 1985 platformer game for the Nintendo Entertainment System. IGN said the game was "The Greatest Game of all Time".  (*)

Gameplay
The game has a total of 8 worlds, with 4 levels each. This makes a total of 32 levels. In the fourth level of each world, you fight Bowser, but you will find that he was an imposter, and the Toads will send you to another castle. The player will only fight the real Bowser on World 8 Level 4.

Over the flagpole
It is possible for the player to jump over the flagpole, however, the player will find nothing further, the background will simply repeat. The player will have to wait for the timer to get to 0, so they can continue again.

Challenge mode
Once Mario or Luigi defeats Bowser on World 8-4, you will unlock a new mode: Challenge mode. In this mode, the enemies will walk faster, all Goombas will turn into Buzzy Beetles and the levels will be harder.

Development
The creators of Mario Bros. wanted to make a game that would really make the Famicom take-off. The game was originally going to be a shooter with a very different gameplay style.  (*)  They also wanted to create an "athletic" game.  (*)  Mario and Luigi would have defeated enemies differently too! The player would have had to destroy the platform below the enemy to defeat them. The idea of shooting made it into the game Super Mario Land on the Game Boy.

Story
The player controls an Italian plumber, Mario, as he tries to save his love: Princess Peach. To do this he must go through eight Worlds, each time fighting the mighty Bowser. This is how Nintendo described the story in the game's manual:

One day the kingdom of the peaceful mushroom people was invaded by the Koopa, a tribe of turtles famous for their black magic. The quiet, peace-loving Mushroom People were turned into mere stones, bricks, and even field horse-hair plants, and the Mushroom Kingdom fell into ruin.



Reviews and Legacy
The game got excellent reviews at the time, including five stars from Allgame.com. (*)  The game was given two sequels. There was the version released in Japan, and the version released to other countries. The game released in Japan was called Super Mario Bros: The Lost Levels. It was much harder than the original, so Nintendo thought people would find the game too difficult. The game they released was far different and was actually a remake of Doki Doki Panic.
The game sold 40 million copies (29 million in North America alone) making it the second best-selling game of all time  (*)

Remakes

Super Mario All Stars
The game was in Super Mario All-Stars for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (or Super Famicom), it was released in 1993. It had the same graphics as Super Mario World. Some glitches were fixed as well. It was later released again on the Wii as Super Mario All-Stars: 25th Anniversary Edition.

Super Mario Deluxe
Super Mario Deluxe was a game for the GameBoy Color which contained both Super Mario Bros. and Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels with updated graphics. It was never officially released in Japan. It is available on the Nintendo 3DS e-Shop.

Super Luigi. Bros
NES Remix 2 contained a remake of Super Mario Bros. The player took control of Luigi instead of Mario this time. The game also went right to left, instead of left to right. Otherwise, it was mostly the same game.

The Minus World
The Minus World is a glitch where the player could reach an unplayable and buggy level. The player would have to glitch the game so that they can walk right through the wall of the first warp zone. This would teleport them to "World -1", the glitch was then named "minus world". No matter how many times the player completed the level, they would just go back to the start. To resume the game, they would need to lose all their lives, or reset their NES.
The Minus World on the Japanese version was very different. In this version, there were 3 levels in the Minus World. In the levels, random characters were floating around. This time, when all 3 levels were finished, the game returned to the Title Screen.  (*)

Characters

Mario
Luigi – Second Player
Princess Toadstool
Toad
Bowser




Sources











wp:Super Mario Bros.
simple:Super Mario Bros.
fr:Super Mario Bros.
(*)  "IGN's Top 100 Games". IGN. http://top100.ign.com/2005/001-010.html. Retrieved 3 October 2014.
(*)  "Super Mario Bros. Originally Had Beam Guns and Rocket Packs". Andriasang.com. 25 October 2010. http://andriasang.com/comqln/mario_original_control_scheme/. Retrieved 4 October 2014.
(*)  Goldman, Tim (20 October 2010). "Miyamoto Reveals Super Mario Bros. Development Secrets". http://www.escapistmagazine.com/news/view/104562-Miyamoto-Reveals-Super-Mario-Bros-Development-Secrets. Retrieved 4 October 2014.
(*)  Smith, Geoffrey Douglas. "Super Mario Bros. Review". Allgame.com. http://allgame.com/game.php?id=1320&tab=review. Retrieved 5 October 2014.
(*)  "Super Mario Bros.". VGChartz. http://www.vgchartz.com/game/6455/super-mario-bros/.
(*)  "Deconstructing the Minus World". https://smcgamer.wordpress.com/2010/09/09/deconstructing-the-minus-world/. Retrieved 5 October 2014.