Sylhet Division is an administrative region in northeastern Bangladesh, comprising four districts - Sylhet, Moulvibazar, Sunamganj, and Habiganj. These districts are classified as 'A' class districts in Bangladesh. Previously, Sylhet was part of the Chittagong Division before Bangladesh gained independence in 1971. Following a government administrative restructuring program, the Sylhet Division was established on August 1, 1995, as the sixth division of Bangladesh. The total area of this division is 12,595.95 sq km. Sylhet Division is known for its industrial products such as fertilizers, cement and Paper mills, Chatak, and electricity, as well as its natural and mineral resources, including gas, oil, stone, and limestone, which play a significant role in the country's economy.
Sylhet Division

History
The history of Sylhet can be divided into several episodes, For example, Ancient Population Details, Historical Details, Ancient Kingdoms, Aryan Age, Muslim Rule Period, Mughal Period, British Period, Inclusion in Pakistan, Liberation War, and Bangladesh. Sylhet refers to the Sylhet division of northeastern Bangladesh, although parts of the historic Sylhet region have been part of the Indian state of Assam since 1947.
It is said that this region belonged to the ancient kingdom of Kamarupa during the Puranic period. It is noted that Kamrup was the state's capital at Laur Parbat in Sylhet during that period. It is believed that the Dravidian and Mongol populations settled in the region in ancient times.After the 7th century AD, Jaintia was divided into three distinct kingdoms, Lauda and Gauda. The ancient Gaur kingdom is historically recognized as the region of present-day Sylhet (divisional city).  In the 10th century, some parts of the region were said to have been ruled by Chandravansya kings of Vikrampur. The region was conquered by the Muslims in 1204 CE through the conquest of Bengal by Ikhtiyar ud-Din Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khilji, and in 1303 CE when the kingdom of Gaur was conquered by Auliya Shah Jalal (r.a.), establishing Muslim rule through the Sultans of Delhi. Then, the city was named Jalalabad instead of Gaur after matching the name of Auliya Shah Jalal.
Then, in 1575 AD, the region's geographical boundaries changed a lot when it was included in the mighty Mughal Empire. In 1765 AD, the Sylhet Division came under the East India Company. In 1772 AD, Sylhet District was formed with three and a half Thanas, which belonged to India since 1947. Sylhet District area was 5,440 square miles. In 1874, this region was included in the Indian state of Assam. Sylhet was a part of Assam till 1947 AD (except for the period of partition of Bengal from 1905-1911). Through a referendum in 1947 AD, this region became part of the borders of the newly created state of Pakistan and is included in present-day Bangladesh. Although some of its parts, such as Karimganj, Patharkandi, Ratabari, Badarpur, etc., regions were separated from Sylhet and became part of Assam and independent India.


External link

ꠤꠟꠐ_ꠝꠘ꠆ꠒꠟ Sylhet division in Sylheti Wikipedia



References