Display of Sylheti words, written in Sylheti, in an exhibition in London promoting awareness of the Sylheti language.
The Sylheti language is an Indo-Aryan language, spoken by approximately 13 million people around the world. It is spoken mostly in India, Bangladesh and the United Kingdom.

Writing Sylheti


Sylheti numbers
Sylheti numerals, while sharing commonalities with both Eastern and Western Arabic numeral systems, exhibit distinctive features. Intriguingly, the Sylheti numerals 4 and 6 demonstrate similarities with Mongolian numerals, suggesting a nuanced historical interplay between these linguistic traditions of Asia. This cross-cultural exchange, particularly in the representation of specific digits, adds a layer of complexity and richness to the Sylheti numerical system. Beyond their utilitarian function, Sylheti numerals become linguistic artifacts embodying the diverse cultural influences that have shaped the heritage of the Sylheti people.
<gallery mode="packed" heights="50">
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ০.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ১.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ২.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ৩.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ৪.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ৫.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ৬.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ৭.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ৮.svg
File:সিলেটি সংখ্যা ৯.svg
</gallery>

Learning Sylheti
Would you like to learn a few words in Sylheti? It's like discovering a secret code that lets you share smiles with new friends. Start with simple greetings, and who knows, you might soon be speaking Sylheti like a pro!
<gallery mode="packed" heights="100">
File:ꠌꠃꠇ.jpg|ꠌꠃꠇ (souk) - eye
File:ꠌꠇꠞ.jpg|ꠌꠇꠞ (soxor) - butterfly
File:ꠌꠥꠀ.jpg|ꠌꠥꠀ (sua) - bird
File:ꠉꠘꠣ.jpg|ꠉꠘꠣ (gona) - count
</gallery>

A poem in Sylheti
A video of King and Queen of Termites by Mujahidul Islam in Sylheti language
A poem by Sundari Mohan Das, who was the founder and principal of the Calcutta National Medical College, India. He was born in Sylhet on 17 December 1857.



External links

ꠤꠟꠐꠤ_ꠝꠣꠔ Sylheti language in Sylheti Wikipedia.
াষা-ও-সংষ্কৃতি Sylheti language in Bangladesh government website (in Bengali)



References