Tallinn is the capital of Estonia and is its main port.

Population = Number of the inhabitants

The Number of the citizens are about 430.000

Name of the inhabitants

The name of the inhabitants is Tallineese

Nationality of the inhabitants

The Nationality of the majority of inhabitants is Estonian, with the rest being Finnish, Russian, Polish and much more, but in smaller groups.

Flag/seal

The flag of Tallinn is a striped white and blue.

Celebrations

Traditions in Tallinn are: the Baltic Folk Festival, the Estonian song festival, the eve of the Jaanipäev,  Viru Säru party,  the Day of the Setu Kingdom, the Time of the Spirits

Popular monuments/places

The Popular monuments of Tallinn are: Passaggio di Santa Caterina, Chiesa di San Nicola, Piattaforma-belvedere di Patkuli, Alexander Nevsky Cathedral , Chiesa di Sant'Olaf e la torre, Cintura muraria di Tallin, Farmacia municipale, Il giardino del Re di Danimarca, Museo marittimo estone-Torre Margherita la Grassa, Museo Estone di Storia Naturale, la Confraternita delle Teste Nere, Stanza di Marzapane di Kalev, Torre della fanciulla, Museo delle marionette NUKU, Museo della città di Tallin, Municipio di Tallin, Castle of Toompea, Piazza delle torri, Porta di Viru e Piazza della libertà

Nickname (for example Paris is called "the City of Light")

The nickname of Tallinn is called a gem in the Baltic.

Particularity

Tallinn is a small gem in the forests and is an intimate and very romantic place. Tallinn has undergone the influence of Finland for centuries, and this is the result that is more similar to the Scandinavian countries and not to the Baltic countries. The tradition of the Christmas tree was born in Tallinn. there is the tomb of Don Giovanni.

Gastronomy = a particular dish

The typical dishes of Tallinn are:The Sült which is a kind of stew accompanied by jelly, the Mulgikapsad which is pork often accompanied by sauerkraut or potatoes, the Verivorst which is a typical Christmas dish with jam and berries, the Marinated Eels which is smoked fish, the Silgusoust which a type of fish cooked with bacon and served with sweet sauce, the Rossolye it is a salad of herring beets in sweet and sour sauce.
Among the desserts, there are: kissel with juice or milk, the Kama made with cereals, sugar and milk and the Karask similar to bread.

Quotation in literature or ....


The most widely read book in Tallinn is the Estonia book and the author is Neil Taylor.