The Testicles, or Testes, are oval shaped organs, that belong to both the reproductive system and the endocrine system of a large number of animals that are male.
Diagram of the parts of the human Male reproductive system. The testicles are located in the Scrotum, which is directly under the Penis
They are located under the penis, both attached to the body and supported by a bag of skin called the scrotum. Typically, one is lower than the other. This is completely normal.
The testicles are the male gonads, co-producers of sperm and sex hormones (testosterone).  This hormone is a substance that runs through the body causing different physical changes typical of men and males that are seen especially during puberty, for example the growth of the beard, the deepening of the voice, etc.  This task is part of the endocrine system, which is responsible for producing and controlling lots of different hormones .
As for the reproductive system, they responsible for manufacturing sperm and then sending them to the vas deferens so that they mix with the fluids of the prostate gland and other organs, and form semen.
They are truly important organs since, without sperm, we would not be able to have children.


Epididymis
Above the testicles, there is a reservoir of mature sperm, which is called the epididymis. Those sperm that have already been manufactured by the testicles and are ready to be used, are sent here to be stored until they are used during the act of Sexual intercourse.

Health problems

One of the most common health problems affecting the Testicles, is Cryptorchidism, from the Greek words "Crypto", meaning hidden, and "Orchis", meaning testicle.  When a male baby is still developing in the womb before birth, the testicles are inside the abdomen and the scrotum is empty. However, some time before they are born, they follow a path through a part of the body called the Inguinal canal, and descend into the scrotum.
If this does not happen, this disease occurs.  Sometimes the testicles can be manually moved by a doctor, from where they are stuck, down into the scrotum.  Other times, it needs to be done in a special operation called an Orchipexy.