TLOZSS
The Legend of Zelda Skyward Sword (TLOZSS) is a game published for the Wii and Nintendo Switch. It is one of the legend of zeldas.

Plot


Start Plot
At the point the wing ceremony was going to start but link lost his loftwing. So it is delayed until link finds his red loftwing. It is pretty short for this part of the entire game. The goal of the wing ceremony is to get the bird thing of the golden loftwing. Once he has his loftwing he can fly through the sky.

Rest Of the game plot
Zelda has reached the surface and gone lost. It’s up to link to find this girl.He has to go through many worlds.She went through a black tornado.

Areas


The Sky


Skyloft
Skyloft is an island in the game. It is the biggest island in the sky for the game. In skyloft their is the bazaar,knight academy, people’s houses.

Fun Fun Island
Fun Fun island is an island. It is reachable by flying your loftwing their. At the start a person named dodoh runs the island. At the beginning of the game dodoh is just getting set up for a mini game. But later you can play the minigame.

Pumpkin Landing
Pumpkin Landing is an island featuring the lumpy pumpkin. At the lumpy pumpkin you can buy pumpkin soup. According to Zelda wiki. Pumpkin landing is the 2nd biggest island in the sky. Even though it’s about 3 times smaller than skyloft.

Bamboo Island
Bamboo island is an island in the north of the sky. It’s unlocked at any time. At the island has a person named peater. He will challenge you to see how many times you can cut the bamboo. The rewards are in this list.

0-14 cuts. Nothing
15-19 cuts. 30 rupees
20-27 cuts. Evil crystal, Monster horn.
28 plus cuts. Goddess Plume,Golden skull, Blue Bird feather.



Beedle’s Island
Beedle’s is a small island in the sky. Nothing much to do here. A goddess chest rely here but that’s pretty much it. Plus it’s beedle private island.
Link on a loftwing

Isle of Songs
Inside the thunderhead is the isle of songs. This is where you learn different songs.

Small islands
The other islands rely here usually only have a goddess chest or 2.

The Surface


Sealed Grounds
Its near the faron woods and is a big spiral.

Faron Woods
Faron woods is the first area on the surface. It contains woods. Many birds live here.The kikiwis live here too.

Deep Woods
Deep woods is an area in faron woods. It has many deku hornets 🐝 and Bokoblins.

SkyView Temple
Its a temple in deep woods. As it’s the 1st dungeon. You will see spiders, Eye sentries and green bokoblins. The music here is pretty creepy.

Lake Floria
Lake floria is a location in faron woods. It is a lake full of water.

Ancient Cistern
Ancient cistern is a dungeon in lake floria.

Eldin Volcano
Eldin Volcano is a location in the game. It is extremely hot.

Earth Temple
The Earth Temple is a temple and 2nd dungeon in the game. It is full of lava and puzzles.

Lanayru Province
A hot region in the surface

Lanayru Mine
Lanayru mine is the 1st area in here.

Lanayru Desert
Lanayru Desert is an area in Lanayru province.

Generator stations
Those building that contain the generators

Lanayru Mining Facility
A dungeon in the game.

Temple of Time
Not a temple but a area in the Lanayru Desert.

Lanayru Caves
Caves that go to different areas

Lanayru Sand Sea
A sea of Lanayru quick sand.

Skipper Retreat
A area in Lanayru sand sea.