The print dress
The Krio people in Sierra Leone have a unique dress code well known among its woman called "Print dress".

The Krio culture
Typical Print dress
The Krios arrived in Sierra Leone during the colonial period. They were a combination of free slaves from different parts of the world coming to settle in Sierra Leone. The first group (black poor) were the first to arrive in Sierra Leone from England, the Nova Scotians from Canada, the Maroons in 1800 from Jamaican and the Re-captives from seas.
The Krio language is made up of words from English, Portuguese, French, Yoruba,Temne,Limba, Mandingo etc. Words like Pikin which means” a kid or child” and Sabi which means “I know how to…” are from (Portuguese), Bcku which means “a lot or plenty “is French, Agidi (Yoruba), Kapu which means “greedily take…”, Kcpc which means “money” in (Mende), Combra which means “a new mother” is (Temne) Mampama “a traditional palm fruity drink” is (Limba), and Yabas which means “onions” is (Mandingo).

Print Dress
The Krio have a unique dress code well known among its woman called "Print dress". The print dress is a cotton material used by Krio as a code of dress during festive season Christmas, marriage, funeral and traditional dance. It is cool and comfortable to wear in hot weather. It originated from England, America and Canada by the ex-slaves. In England, the African wear the print dress to identify and differentiate themselves from the other blacks and tribes.
In Sierra Leone the print material was first introduced on the 27th April,1961 during the visit of Queen Elizabeth as an exhibition. It is imported today from Banjul (the Gambia) and Nigeria by Ducums store at Mallam-Thomas Street. Before then, the print dress was imported by the Krio descendant union/organization in Sierra Leone through its former head Cassandra Barber and the current head is Mrs. Blussman.
<gallery>
Mami Thomas and her daughter.jpg|Mami Thomas and her daughter
Tailor sewing the print dress.jpg|Tailor sewing the print dress
A krio woman.jpg|A krio woman in her full print dress attire
</gallery>

The Material
A print dress material
There are different types and colour of print dress made with different design and patterns such as cockle shell, fan, banana, cock, pineapple, onion, snail, suku blia.
The suku blia was taken from the Temne tradition. There are two types suku blia: the smaller size, which is used to keep money, the bigger size was used to put things during engagement such as the print dress, Gara lapa etc.

Sewing Print Dress (construction)
The print dress is sewn in different stages:
Stage 1: to create the front embroidery of the print dress the tailor starts by covering part of the material with coloured stitches backed by brown paper to prevent it from fraying. The colour of thread should be a the same on the print material to match.
Stage 2: is cutting a long bias strip from the print material, joining the bias and then pipping the edge of the bias and turn the material over. There are stitches made known as complete stitches.
Stage 3: is laying of the stitches on the print fabric or material and then sewn beautifully. A brown paper is also used and laid under the material to hold the material for a very long time such as seven to eight years.
When the print dress first came into fashion a cement paper was used for the dress backing, then later brown paper which is stronger. The length types of the dress can be a midi or top and a Lapa normally known as docket and Lapa, a head scarf is used or cut to blend.

Accessories to the print dress
The following accessories are also made to be worn together with the print dress:

Canvas shoes made up of threads the same colour as the print dress.
A head kerchief or head tie.
Bracelet
A plaited material call Kaba-slot laid or hang on the shoulder.
Cotocu is a bag like purse with a long rope made from the same print material. It is tied round the waist and used as a purse known as secret lover to prevent thieves from stealing their money.


The women always look pretty and colourful in their print dress, they easily stand out of the crowd with their full print attires.