History Significance:
The massacre memorial

The Du-port Road Waterside Community is the heart of Du-port Road, which is currently one of the largest communities in Paynesville. It has a variety of activities as part of its rich environment, primarily serving as a residential area with many little businesses that help sustain the residents of this community. It is a rich historical, social and economic expression of Liberia’s history as a whole and the daily lifestyle of its residents is strongly rooted both in culture and adaptation.
The massacre memorial 1.2

Du-port Road Waterside is found at the very end of Duport Road, where the pavement ends and the land connects with a tributary of the Du River, one of the six major rivers of the nation. Du, as it is commonly and famously known, is the name given to the river by the Gola tribe. It is also known as the St. Paul River. During the early days of Firestone, an American Rubber Company established in Liberia in 1926, Rubber and other resources were transported from Harbel to Paynesville by this river. It was taken to a little port found at this particular tributary. This is where the name comes from: The Du River and the Port it led to, that was majorly used by Firestone. Back then, Du-port Road wasn’t majorly a residential community, but a commercial one, with a lot of undeveloped land and vegetation. Currently, its population is estimated to be around 3,300.


Another major historic, but tragic significance of Du-port Road Waterside is the Monument that serves as a mass grave of many innocent lives that were taken in the Du-port Road massacre that occurred around 1992, during the civil war. It is said that more than 4 huge truckloads of bones were buried where the monument of remembrance now stands. Every year on Decoration Day, the current president of Liberia goes to place a reef on the monument, in honor of the lives that were so sadly taken.


Both of these activities give us an image of the positive and negative parts of Liberia’s history and even after all these years and changes in the community, the weight of these experiences influences both the identity of the community and the lifestyle of its residents.


The Lifestyle of Du-port Road Waterside Community Residents
The people of Du-port Road waterside perfectly blend modern lifestyle with rural significance. A day with them feels like a visit to a traditional village while still staying in a developing city. It feels like a Liberian version of a suburban setting. Du-port Road Waterside Community ResidentsThere are a lot of mat houses, the people who work mostly need no technology, they are more like a family than just a community where everybody helps everybody. They freely speak their dialects and even with the inclusion of some major structural development, like the compound of concrete houses for rent owned by a bishop in Liberia, a mini mansion owned by a minister in the government and the storey-building clinic he is currently erecting, the residents has managed to maintain a simple lifestyle, mostly relying on their trading to get by. Children are placed under apprenticeship to learn necessary skills like fishing, canoe riding, mat plaiting, making baskets and many more.
The residents love to sing and dance. They play loud music, often singing, dancing and playing along. They mostly speak Bassa. You can also catch some people speaking Grebo, Kru and Krahn. Their favorite foods are Dumbo, GB, palm butter and similar foods.
They are very hardworking and they contribute to their community significantly. They are very friendly as well and they love to share what they know with others.
Even with many difficulties and hard situations, they usually seem genuinely happy and are quick to adapt to situations needed to survive.

Earning A Living
The residents of Du-port Road waterside community are deeply involved in trading. They rely on the transporting of goods from Margibi to Du-port Road by canoes in order to do business and make a living. During the rainy season, the tributary is full and it is easier to transport goods. During the Dry season however, transporting goods becomes much harder as the tributary usually dries up and they have a longer distance to carry the goods. The main goods involved in their trade are products from natural resources and raw materials that need to be processed. Some of these includes:Wood SaleFishing Basket

The use of bamboo trees to make mats for houses, shops and other things. It is also used to make furniture, fishing traps, baskets and “palm wine”, a natural wine tapped from the Bamboo tree that looks and tastes like the wine tapped from the palm tree as well. The residents of the Duport-road Waterside community use bamboo for a lot of different reasons and it is one of their most transported raw materials.
They also transport other “road poles”, sticks used as scaffolds and braces for building and as the structure for small houses built with mat, mud, roofing, etc.
Trees are sawed into timber and planks and transported to Duport-road waterside for sale. These planks are used for a variety of reasons.
The residents are also involved in agriculture, planting and harvesting crops like corn, potato, cassava, and many more. These farmers have experience and understanding on the best time of the year to plant what so that the seasons don’t cause major loss.
They also make fire coals by building a mud structure that serves as an oven known as the “coal bed” and stacking it with wood that is covered with grass. Then add gasoline, start a fire and totally shut the oven with more mud. It is dangerous because the thick smoke is not healthy for humans and when not carefully don’t, cases of people falling into the oven and burning alive has been recorded
The use of canoes for transporting both people and goods is a major part of making a living for many at the waterside. While a very risky business, with the canoes having many faults and looking unsafe, these experts will usually goods in piles upon piles.
The Monument also serves as a tourist site. People sometimes visit it and the history of the massacre is explained by a trained team assisted by elders in the community that seem to have personal experiences about the things they speak about in one way or the other. They receive commissions for their services in this area.


Students of JESCOR Learning on  a tourFire Coal MerchandiseStudents of JESCOR Learning about weaving fishing basketsStudents of JESCOR Learning being taught about the massacreTwo young residents selling palm wineWeaving fishing basketsBoating 1.2Boating