The Angry Birds Movie's poster
The Angry Birds Movie is a Finnish-American computer animated comedy movie based on the game series Angry Birds. It is directed by Clay Kaytis and Fergal Reilly, produced by John Cohen and Catherine Winder, and written by Jon Vitti. The movie's voice roles are played by Jason Sudeikis, Josh Gad, Danny McBride, Maya Rudolph, Bill Hader and Peter Dinklage, among others.
The movie premiered on May 20, 2016 in the United States and on May 13 in Sweden.
The Swedish version is dubbed. Among the Swedish voices are Nassim Al Fakir, Adam Fietz, Fredde Granberg, Jens Hultén, Alex Kantsjö, Allan Svensson and Cecilia Wrangel Schough.

Plot
Bird Island is an island home to peaceful flightless birds. Red is a bird that lives alone as a hermit, grumpy and marginalized, with a tendency to have fits of anger. His job is to entertain the newborn chicks by making them laugh. After getting angry and smashing the birthday cake in the face of his latest client, who had teased and attacked him only because he was late, he ends up in court. In court, Judge Beccazampa sentences him to an anger control course.
The teacher of the course is Matilda, who in the past was an angry bird herself. Among the birds taking part in the course are Chuck, a lightning-fast yellow bird who has caused trouble with a policeman, Bomb, a gentle black bird that tends to explode whenever it is surprised or shocked, and Terence, a huge red bird that only expresses itself through growls and grunts. On the first day, Red destroys a sign mannequin made by Chuck without telling anyone, later Chuck discovers and unmasks it during one of the meetings. The course fails to improve Red's behavior.
One day, while they are following the course, Red and his companions are informed by Stella that a wooden ship is arriving on the island. Two pigs disembark from the ship, Leonard, and his assistant dachshund Ross; the two claim to be visiting from the Isle of Pigs. In short, the two pigs win the sympathy of the inhabitants. However Red asks Leonard if he is truly an explorer as he says he is, why the pigs are still on the island. The judge orders Red to stay away from them, refusing to believe his allegations about the pigs. Then Red with the help of Chuck and Bomb sneaks aboard the ship of the pigs discovering that the hold is full of them, immediately denounces the thing but to his great surprise instead of alarming the population again accuses Red of bothering the guests. So, Red gets Chuck and Bomb to help them look for the Great Eagle, an eagle giant said to be the protector of the island, and the only bird that can fly.
After a few days of searching, they find his Lake of Wisdom on top of Mount Bird, discovering that the Great Eagle actually lives there. As Red tries to inform the Eagle of his suspicions about pigs, it is revealed that the last is retired, lazy, boastful, and hasn't been flying for years. Angry at him, Red and his two friends return to the village. Red discovers that the pigs are placing TNT around the island, and they intend to steal the eggs of the island's birds. Red and Bomb then try to retrieve the eggs, and Chuck runs to warn all the other inhabitants of the island of the theft in progress. Red and Bomb are unable to stop the pigs, who return with the load of eggs to their island and in the meantime the explosives destroy the village.
When they land on the Isle of Pigs, it turns out that the pigs live in a walled city with a huge castle in the center . After Red sees a painting of Leonard with a crown on his head, he realizes that he is actually the king of the pigs, and that the eggs are most likely kept inside the castle. Using the giant slingshot , the birds attack the pigs but cannot reach the fortress. Red, Chuck and Bomb manage to enter the castle, where they discover that the eggs are in a boiler room, ready to be cooked and eaten by the pigs.
Before the trio manages to save the eggs, however, Red is captured by Leonard, who reveals his real name: King Mudbeard. When the evil ruler threatens to boil Red, Chuck and Bomb burst into the room. Even the Great Eagle, breaking through the roof, swoops into the hall and tries to take away the eggs. During the flight of the birds, a blue egg falls, which rolls towards the castle. Determined to risk his own life, Red runs to rescue the egg from King Mudbeard's clutches, and floods the castle with the cooking liquid from the egg cooker. The red bird outwits the king of pigs and retrieves the egg, leaving the ruler and the entire island destroyed using TNT. After the explosion, the birds believe that Red didn't make it and mourn him, but eventually he resurfaces with the egg, and is hailed as a hero. When the Great Eagle approaches him, Chuck and Bomb, he reveals that he has never actually been lazy, and that he made the three of them lose faith in him to find it in themselves.
Afterwards, it appears the birds give the Great Eagle all credit for saving the eggs, and Red takes it quietly, humbly, rather than having one of his typical bouts of rage. In addition, he eventually discovers that his fellow villagers have rebuilt his house as a sign of gratitude, so he decides that in the future it will be better for him to participate more often in the community. Finally Red, who now considers Chuck and Bomb as friends, decides to let them live in his house, and the two accept with joy.