The Three Little Pigs cartoons are three cartoons that were created by Walt Disney Animation Studios from 1933 to 1936. They were all created in Technicolor and featured no more than five or six characters (though "Three Little Wolves" has seven).

The Three Little Pigs
Theaterical Poster Release
Three Little Pigs was released on April 14, 1933. The cartoon starts off with Fifer Pig building his "hay" house. Then Fiddler pig is shown building his stick house. Finally Practical Pig is seen building his brick house. Fifer and Fiddler play on their instruments and sing "He just has no time to play, time to play, time to play, all he does is work all day" to Practical. Practical then warns them about the wolf coming through their door since their houses were made poorly. Then Fifer and Fiddler sing Who's afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?. The wolf is then seen hiding behind a tree, followed by Fifer and Fiddler saying "I'll punch him in the nose! I'll tie him in a knot! I'll kick him in the chin! We'll shoot him on the spot!" And make Play-machine gun noises (supposedly by buzzing their tongues as they pretend to shoot down the wolf). Then the wolf appears and Fifer runs into his house saying after the wolf tells him to open the door "Not by the hair of my Chiny chin chin!", followed by the wolf blowing his house down. Next they Fifer and Fiddler hide in the stick house, and the wolf pretends to "Oh well, Too smart for me, guess I'll go home!" And goes behind a bush. Then after the pigs believe he is gone, he dresses up as a sheep, but the pigs don't fall for this, so the wolf blows the house down. Both now run and hide under the bed in Practical's house. Then the wolf disguises himself as a person heading to collage. Practical steals his brush, and the wolf says "By the hair of your Chiny chin chin I'll huff and I'll puff and I'll blow your house in!" But he ends up losing his trousers in the process. He then try's to come in through the chimney, but Practical pours turpentine in it causing the wolf to literally "Burn his butt" and he runs away. The pigs then celebrate in the process, and practical pretends to knock on the piano, Causing the pigs to think the wolf is back. Then the cartoon ends.

The Big Bad Wolf
Title Card
This episode starts with Little Red Riding Hood heading to her grandma's house. Along the way she meets the pigs, and the pigs suggest that she takes the short cut, but Practical warns them about the wolf, and the other two pigs say  "That old wolf is just a sissy! All he does is huff. And puff. We'll go with you and protect you. Come along, we'll call his bluff!" Then in the woods, the Wolf dresses up as Goldilocks, but his trousers break free from the tree causing him to appear, and with the pigs running away. The wolf chases Riding Hood, but fails, and says "Curses!" But then he sees Grandma's house ahead. He knocks on the door, and Grandma says "Come in" with the wolf coming to attack her, causing her to have to run into a wardrobe. Riding Hood then knocks, making the wolf dress up as her grandma, and "she" says "Come in" Riding hood greets the wolf, unaware that her "grandma" is the wolf. Riding hood says "Ooh Grandma, what big (facial feature) you have! With the wolf responding something like  "The better to look you over deary! When she's says his eyes are big and impersonating "All the better to! Hachacha!", and doing an impersonating of Jimmy Durante; when she's says his nose is big, And the wolf quietly turns to the audience and asks, "How am I doing?" And when Riding Hood Says that his mouth is big, he jumps up and chases Riding Hood, and her grandma takes her in the wardrobe too. Meanwhile, the pigs arrive home, and say "The wolf, he's got her!" To Practical Pig. Practical then gets unpopped popcorn and his normal tools. At Grandma's house, the wolf continues to try to open the door, when Practical secretly pours the kernels in his pants, and fills them with hot coal, causing the wolf to jump out of the house, with popcorn popping out of his pants. Then everyone plays "Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf" ending with the pigs saying "He's a great big sissy!"

Three Little Wolves
Theatrical Poster Release
The cartoon starts with the Wolf teaching his children about how pigs are good to eat, and bored, the little wolves throw slingshots at him, causing the wolf to say "Hey, Cut it out or Pop'll blow your ears off!" Causing the little wolves to taunt him by doing "Who's afraid of The Big Bad Wolf", which the pigs are doing at the same time. The pigs discover a horn, which is for emergency only, tempting and causing the pigs to blow it, which Practical Pig, who is building a wolf pacifier, hears this, but when the pigs say "Boo!" Practical says he won't come next time the horn is blown. The wolf then disguises himself as Bo Peep, and tricks the pigs into his house, he swallows the key, and the pigs say "Why, Bo Peep!" Causing the wolf to take his dress off and reveal himself. The pigs desperately try to get Practical, but fail because of Practical's belief in them playing a joke. Then when the pigs are tied up on a plate with other foods, a little wolf blows the horn, and the pigs say "Ohhh, why don't ya' Blow it Loud!" But the wolf is too weak, and the pigs say it was a sissy blow, then the Big Wolf comes and blows it so loud it blows out his house, past a lake, knocking down some trees and into Practical, now believing that the pigs need help due to him saying "The Wolf!". Practical dresses up as an Italian tomato seller, tricking the Wolf into his "Wolf Pacifier" In order, the wolf gets his rear hit on a large saw, then him getting a hairdo, then some rolling sticks hitting his head playing the opposite tune of "Who's afraid of the Big Bad Wolf'. Then he is kicked by boots into where his head is in a hole with boxing hands. Next he is tarred and feathered and finally placed into a cannon and is shot away, with the three little wolves running after him. The cartoon ends when the pigs come out safely with Practical holding a "flag" with the cloth being the bloomers part of his Bo Peep Costume.

Trivia

Cartoons 1 and 2 are based on existing fairy tales.
In Cartoon 3, The Wolf speaks broken German, e.g. "Ist das een Sausage Meat" causing him to be a stand-in for Adolf Hitler. Also the hairdo in the Wolf Pacifier resembles Hitler's hairstyle.
A Running Gag in all cartoons but 2 is when the Wolf (or one of the wolf pups in cartoon 3) blow so hard his pants fall off, and only in Cartoon Three does he get his clothes back after.
The Wolf dresses in drag (female clothing) disguises in all the sequels, another running gag.