Traffic Light at red
Traffic Lights are an alternative to the stop signs. They have different colors.

Colors


Red
Red Means Stop. Cars Must Stop on the red. They can’t turn left or go straight on a red. Some countries allow cars to turn right on reds when it’s very safe.

Yellow
Yellow Means Slow down. It’s going to be red soon. Yellow lights usually last no longer than 5 seconds.

Green
Green Means to go. Cars can turn left or right. Go straight. Cars beep at you if you don’t go.

Turning Left Or Right
When Turning left or right there might be a separate signal.

Turning Left or Right
Do to sometimes waiting a long time. They have a Left turn signal. It comes in one of the 4 ways

Doghouse Traffic Lights
These 5 light traffic lights have a normal red, yellow and green but also have a yellow arrow and green arrow. This can be useful for a time to turn left on a green arrow. When there is no green arrow yield for cars and wait until no cars are coming then turn left/right (If it is normal green).

Left Turn traffic light
Looks very similar to the normal one. They usually have an arrow rather than just a light. When the arrow is green go, when the arrow is yellow slow down, when the arrow is red. Stop.A right turn traffic Light is usually green when the normal ones are green.

Left Turn 4 lighted Traffic Light
Has 4 lights. Here are the colors. Red arrow:Stop, Yellow Arrow (Steady):Slow down,Yellow arrow (Blinking/Flashing):Yield to other cars when trying to turn left,Green:Go turn Left.It does not apply to right turning.

5 Lighted Traffic Light
Had 5 Lights. Similar to the doghouse light. Red:Stop, Yellow (Full Light):Slow Down,Yellow (Arrow Light):Slow down on turning left/right,Green (Full Light):Go,Yield to other cars when turning left or right,Green (Arrow Light):Your chance to turn left or right.

Turning and yielding for humans
You also have to be aware of humans. Humans are crossing the street so take your turns carefully. Stop when a human is crossing. Once the human or humans finished crossing you can take your turn if no vehicles either. Do this on green not on red.

Human crossing Signals
Humans also have a crossing signal. In the US there is a walk sign, a flashing hand and a steady hand.

Walk Sign
Walk Sign means to cross. It’s white and it looks like a person crossing. Start Crossing.It sometimes requires a push of a button.

Hand (Flashing)
A Flashing hand now has a timer too. The timer means how much time you have left. Don’t cross when you don’t have enough time (Ex: Less than 7 seconds). Cross when you have at least 14 seconds or it will be a waste of time if you don’t cross even if you have enough time.

Hand (Steady)
Don't cross. Wait until a walk sign is there.In the meantime push the button just in case you need a walk sign by the button. During the COVID 19 some crossing signs are automated to prevent people from pushing the button.