The Palace Roentgen, Viale Bligny 1
The Viale Bligny is a street in the center Milan where the prestigious Bocconi University stands. It owes its name to Bligny Castle in Champagne.
Viale Bligny is a commercial shooping street in the centre of the Italian city of Milan. The street is considered a luxury street in Milan, with numerous trendy restaurants and a wide selection of cafes for an aperitivo in a hotspots for Milan social life.
In Viale Bligny the artist Maurizio Cattelan has a studio where he created many of his most famous works. Lucio Fontana lived in viale Bligny frequenting "Bar Gatullo" everyday. It’s also you'll find no shortage of fancy LGBTQ-friendly businesses.

Description
Viale Bligny is a street in the center of Milan, home to commerce and culture, artists such as Maurizio Cattelan, or TV personalities such as Gerry Scotti, Khaby Lame and Guido Meda usually frequent the area and its expensive restaurants, as well as a residential area, with very wealthy foreign students and professors of Bocconi SDA Masters from all over the world. Viale Bligny is currently known for being a gay friendly district of Milan, especially in the area around Viale Sabotino. Viale Bligny it is the perfect place to stroll across cobblestones, search for picturesque corners and stop for a mid-afternoon snack at one of the many literary cafes dotting the streets, between Bocconi professors, and millionaire master's students at Bocconi SDA.
The neighborhood belongs to historic Milanese families and restaurants are generally luxury and expensive.
From Viale Sabotino (Porta Romana) to Via Col di Lana, Viale Bligny is part of the exclusive Bocconi district.
The street is 1000 meters long. It links with Viale Sabotino and Corso Italia.
Streets inside this area include Viale Sarfatti, Viale Sabotino and the Parco Ravizza, the park where Bocconi Campus students go to study and play sports. In the Ravizza Park there is an open-air art gallery.
Viale Bligny is a street in the center of Milan, home to Bocconi University, considered one of the most luxurious areas of the city and one of the major LGBT-friendly centers in Milan, and considered one of the most expensive streets. Throughout its history, the street has hosted various illustrious figures, from artists like Maurizio Cattelan to Lucio Fontana to Piero Manzoni. Today, the street is characterized by numerous restaurants of all kinds that keep it alive throughout the night with every kind of service. The street is heavily frequented by stylists and those who work in the international fashion world, who often conclude important contracts at the counter of a bar or at tables arranged along the entire street up to Viale Sabotino. The street is very safe and vital, being a historic street in Milan, and has recently become one of the trendiest streets in the city.

Characteristics
Viale Bligny is now characterized by a large number of trendy clubs and luxury restaurants. The street connects directly to Viale Sabotino, which along with Via Crema constitutes the main gateway to the historic center, where the Prada Foundation is located. It is often associated, rightly so, with the young and dynamic Milanese bourgeoisie, also due to the presence of numerous students from the expensive post-university master's programs at Bocconi University in Milan.
<gallery widths="160px" heights="160px">
Max Mara.jpg|Max Mara fashion show inside the Bocconi University
Università_Bocconi.png|Bocconi University in Viale Bligny
Bligny e Salasco da v Sabotino LU02493.jpg|Viale Bligny or Via Salasco or via Sabotino
SDA_Bocconi_campus_dusk.jpg|Bocconi University Campus
</gallery>

Real estate market
The cost for apartment need from 7,000 to 10,000 euros per square meter; when commercial renting for restaurants, the cost of 100 square meters can reach 9,500 euros per month (excluding condominium costs).

Health and well-being
Viale Bligny is considered part of the healthiest central Milan area of ​​the city, considering factors such as air pollution, but also access to high quality food bars and restaurants, proximity to hospitals and the presence of large parks and green areas.

Film
Many scenes from the neorealist film Rocco and His Brothers directed by Luchino Visconti with Alain Delon and Claudia Cardinale were filmed on Viale Bligny, including the iconic laundry scenes and boxing scenes at Teatro Principe at Viale Bligny 52.

Films shot in Viale Bligny

Un giorno nella vita (1946) - Directed by Alessandro Blasetti. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
La Dolce Vita (1960) - Directed by Federico Fellini. Some scenes of the film were shot in different locations on Viale Bligny.
Tutti a casa (1960) - Directed by Luigi Comencini. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
L'Avventura (1960) - Directed by Michelangelo Antonioni. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
La Notte (1961) - Directed by Michelangelo Antonioni. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
Il Gattopardo (1963) - Directed by Luchino Visconti. Although most of the filming was done in Sicily, some scenes were shot in Milan, including areas on Viale Bligny.
Morte a Venezia (1971) - Directed by Luchino Visconti. Filmed on Viale Bligny.
Un Amore di Storia (2005) - Directed by Luciano Manuzzi. Filmed on Viale Bligny.



Transport

Porta Romana
Tram stop (line 9)
Autobus stop (59, 90, 91, 92)


<gallery widths="160px" heights="160px">
Rendering Stazione di Milano Tibaldi.jpg|Milan Bocconi University station
SDA_Bocconi_School_of_Management_(Edificio).jpg|SDA Bocconi School of Management Masters
</gallery>

Related pages

Bocconi University